{
    "4040": "The depictions of the two volcanoes, which lead one to meditate on the mysterious and universal force of nature, reflect the artist's Neoplatonic pantheism, based on the belief that the Divine animates the world from within.",
    "25889": "Here, in a beige monochrome on a black marble background, nine putti take part in a bacchanalia, a celebration in honour of Bacchus.",
    "29477": "This composition, showing a playful Christ Child, who lifts his mother's veil in a game of peekaboo, was conceived by Jan Gossart.",
    "27563": "In the present painting the sitter poses with a smooth-haired brown and white spaniel before an extensive garden, a statue behind her to the right and a classical balustrade in the distance.",
    "3117": "Del Lama may be seen among the crowd of people on the right-hand side of the picture, an elderly man with white hair and a light blue robe looking at the observer and pointing in the latter's direction with his right hand. The most famous members of the Medici family are portrayed together with del Lama; controversy rages as to their precise identification, although there is no doubt that the eldest king, kneeling before the Virgin and the Christ Child, is a representation of Cosimo the Elder, founder in the 1430s of what would be dynastic rule by the Medici family over Florence for many years to come. Other members: Cosimo's son Piero, called the Gouty, as the kneeling king with red mantle in the centre, Lorenzo the Magnificent as the young man at his right, in profile, with a black and red mantle. The ground rises gently, so that the faces of almost everyone present can be seen, as can the great variety of postures and gestures that these figures embody. Furthermore, he has moved the central king slightly away from the main axis, enabling the observer's gaze to fall unimpeded upon the Virgin, who is now no longer in danger of becoming lost in the throng, as was still the case in the London portrayal.",
    "10961": "The ox and ass, together with their marble crib, have been moved to the edge of the picture. Joseph and the Christ Child at the front edge of the picture are adapted to the shape of the frame.",
    "13484": "The decoration of the space is divided into two parts, one dedicated to the world of allegories, the other to the real world. The ceiling contains a representation of the triumph of Music, while the back wall celebrates the true protagonists, the young women (or putte), who played music in the room every day.",
    "25528": "On the left bank of the river is a village and a Late Gothic church of a type common in Holland. On the right bank, a boat with lowered sails is moored by a farmhouse. The sailboat in the foreground, flying the Dutch flag, is a 'schouw', one of a few types of shallow-draft vessel that were used to ship goods and occasionally passengers between towns on the inland waterways.",
    "11299": "Giotto sets the event remote from the world, in the isolation of the mountains and unnoticed by the reading monk. It marks him our for all to see as an imitator of Christ. The Son of God appears to him, wrapped around by angels' wings.",
    "21803": "To the right can be seen the Uffizi.",
    "9464": "The gloomy and splendid landscape inspired the painter to pass on a serious message. The three major elements of the composition  are a group of people in the foreground, light green leaves of the trees in the forest and monumental mountain chain the background.",
    "30539": "The leaden window to the left was entirely overpainted at the time of the purchase by the museum and replaced by a curtain and a view upon a landscape through an open window. Like A Lady and Two Gentlemen, this seduction scene contains an open window which features the warning figure of Temperance.",
    "28446": "A sudden light forces Soranzo out of the shadow and he appears to be engaged in an intense conversation with the observer, revealing to him his innermost human and spiritual emotions.",
    "29833": "A tailor in a striped doublet is seated on the left-hand counter. To his right another man is cutting cloth with a huge pair of shears.",
    "15090": "The painting shows a view of the Tiber with the Castel Sant'Angelo and St Peter's Basilica.",
    "17449": "The various objects and food items are displayed in two distinct sections, with the largest ones at the back, while smaller elements are positioned at the forefront, and are therefore more easily accessible to the eye. This arrangement stands out clearly from a dark brown wall, which sets off the pale brown tabletop, on which the light originating from the left of the painting is focused.",
    "25422": "In the background other similarly wind-tossed boats are barely sketched in. The real protagonist of the painting are not the sailing boats but the grandeur and force of nature: the wind and the stormy sea.",
    "20733": "The Procurators can be recognised by the velvet stole covering their shoulders.",
    "939": "The cheek is formed by a large firestone, the neck and chin are formed by a burning candle and an oil lamp, the nose and ear are contoured by firesteels; a blond moustache is formed by a crossed bundle of wood shavings for kindling, the eye is an extinguished candle stub, the forehead area is a wound-up fuse, the hair of the head forms a crown of blazing logs. The breast is composed of fire weapons: mortar and canon barrels together with the respective gunpowder shovel and a pistol barrel. Prominently positioned in the picture is the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece, beneath which the imperial double-eagle can be seen: a clear reference to the Habsburg House and the beneficiary of the series, Emperor Maximilian II.",
    "14129": "In this diagonal arrangement the precious nautilus cup dominates the composition. A long, dried-out lemon peel has been laid over the shell, linking the nautilus cup with the silver beaker in front of it, in whose engraved silver surface the peel is reflected. This beaker, with its simple decoration, forms in its turn the background for another precious object: the glass-holder, in which a 'berkemeyer' (a glass with a thick, hollow stem and a wide, conical bowl) has been clamped. The yellow of the lemon peel is followed by the softer yellow of the glass-holder and the orange of the peach; the red lobster closes off the composition.",
    "27391": "In this picture, Stuck brings together a faun, a hybrid of man and billy goat, and a creature from the sea. The forest spirit caringly carries the water maiden, equipped with flippers, through the knee-deep water. The water is the reason for the piggyback situation, and we see a high-spirited, vital game on the seashore, devised with human models.",
    "1240": "The picture shows the exterior view of the altarpiece. The wings represent Sts Catherine of Alexandria and Agnes.",
    "28141": "This scene is on the wall of the room with Rustic Scenes in the Foresteria of the Villa Valmarana.",
    "831": "Fifteen of the seventeen guardsmen have been lined up in two rows, with only a weak attempt to bind them together. Some of the men are looking towards the spectator, some of them elsewhere.",
    "3058": "It shows a still-life of flowers, including irises, narcissi, lily-of-the-valley and carnations, in a tall glass vase set on a stone ledge.",
    "15617": "This unlikely gardener represents Grammar. The Liberal Arts were the literary trio, Grammar, Rhetoric and Dialectic, and the mathematical quartet of Arithmetic, Music, Geometry and Astronomy. La Hyre shows Grammar, with a homely jug, watering primulas and anemones in terracotta pots as lovingly studied from the object as any kitchenware by Chardin. Behind her, grand fluted Roman columns and a Roman urn close off our view into the garden beyond the wall, but the mood is as friendly and serene as if she were nursing her plants on a balcony in a quiet Paris backwater away from the traffic, airing the ravishing harmonies of her shot-silk gown and mild blue cloak.",
    "28015": "The fourth compartment in the room of Homer shows Cupid, armed with quiver and arrows, hovering over a landscape typical of Veneto, a clear homage to Paolo Veronese's klandscapes in the Villa Barbaro in Maser.",
    "171": "The picture shows the central panel of the Polyptych of the Apocalypse. In the centre of the polyptych is God the Father in Glory with the Lamb, between the symbols of the four Evangelists. In the central panel for example, where St. John the Evangelist looks up from his writing to admire the Eternal in glory with the Lamb of God, surrounded by the symbols of the four Evangelists with wings covered with eyes, being worshipped by twenty-four venerable old men, here too the theme, though very complex, comes through with exemplary clarity because of the subtle expressiveness of the details which frees the sacred vision of every transcendent abstraction.",
    "31215": "The picture shows the central panel of the polyptych depicting the Virgin Enthroned with Child.",
    "32374": "In this painting, Zucchi takes inspiration from the kind of composition typically used by Vasari, portraying small groups of figures dancing or embracing one another on the banks of a stream.",
    "25648": "The picture shows four scenes from the upper register of the west wall: Annunciation to Zacharias; Zacharias Noting Down the Angel's Message; The Visitation; and The Meeting of Mary and Zacharias.",
    "21381": "The figures are normally shown half-length, the Madonna and Child painted on the same scale as the figures venerating them, and they all appear to co-exist in the same picture space, without the hierarchy so typical of Renaissance triptychs and polyptychs.",
    "1794": "The faithful, besides being moved by the sacrifice of Christ, draws consolation for his own pain through the observation of divine suffering. The hands of the mother and son are clasped tightly together in a strong plastic join of Crivellesque inspiration, which in the past led scholars to suppose it was the work of a Ferrarese master.",
    "24194": "The brightness of the light shining through the window behind the woman's head is reflected by the book so that it permeates her countenance, pervading it with vivid and delicate shades.",
    "2958": "As in the Last Judgment, the left inner wing presents the Creation and Fall of Man (reversing, however, the sequence of episodes from foreground to background) and the expulsion of the Rebel Angels.",
    "3523": "Constructed on a series of triangular rhythms heightened by the violent tension of the drapery, which seems to absorb the figures, the composition has a rarefied atmosphere. The audacious, almost explosive gesture of his arms seems to introduce the more serene and contemplative effect of the background, in which unreal, almost stage-set buildings stand out against the luminous sky.",
    "20251": "The fact that the sitter is facing left, and has a little dog - a symbol of marital faithfulness - on her lap suggests that this portrait is one of a pair; the unidentified pendant would have depicted her husband. Dressed in the Flemish fashion of the 1560s, she occupies almost all vibrantly-lit space. Posed at an angle, her face is turned towards the viewer, at whom she gazes.",
    "18636": "This canvas depicting a nude young woman adorning herself before her mirror is a typical example of a group of paintings produced by the school of Fontainebleau, almost all anonymous, representing either Diana, or A Lady at Her Toilette and all featuring half-length figures.",
    "8576": "The basic approach of the two paintings is of evident Byzantine tradition: the elegant stylization of the hands, the typical downward curving nose, the red maphórion under Mary's veil, the dark drapery animated by shining gilded lines.",
    "25961": "This genre scene depicts a man who has lit his pipe with a candle, in the background a man and a woman.",
    "17169": "He is depicted in devotion in the left background.",
    "16386": "This small panel, originally the door of a piece of furniture, or the back of a mirror, depicts the goddess Fortune, accompanied by all her attributes. The goddess is portrayed balancing on a globe, a symbol of the instability by which she is characterised. The red wings on her left foot indicate her fleetingness. On her right, a crown with a sceptre, an inkwell, two books and a ruler fall from above, all symbols of earthly powers and trades that are subject to the goddess's volubility. The coins sliding into the vase from a purse and coming out of it transformed into butterflies represent the transience of wealth. A winged figure, possibly a depiction of Time or Death, is offering Fortune a tray with an hourglass and some flowers, a reminder of the passing of time and the transitory nature of worldly goods. The fragile glass vase that the goddess is holding on the right-hand side could be a tribute to the interest that Francesco I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany, paid to this kind of object.",
    "24982": "The detail shows the kneeling figure of St Apollonia on the right side of the painting.",
    "23791": "Domestic happiness and intimacy are their dominate mood.",
    "29691": "It preserved the miraculous, painted portrait of Christ, believed to have been completed by angels, and some of the most treasured relics from the Holy Land, including a coal from the fire that roasted Lawrence and drops of Stephen's blood.",
    "29669": "The throne on which the Virgin sits, the drapery of her robe and her facial type are all specifically Florentine.",
    "4428": "This detail shows the artist's most admired features: vibrant colours, movement and pathos in the figures, sharp foreshortening, and the landscape upper right, which extends all the way to the horizon.",
    "8586": "Iconographically it follows the \"Madonna of Mercy\" type: while looking towards the spectator the Virgin holds back the edge of her robe the better to receive and protect the three kneeling friars, for whom the Child's blessing is intended. The tiny square panels of the backcloth, an innovation substituting the usual gold ground, are of clear French derivation. The features of the supplicating friars and the throne, a simple wooden seat placed obliquely to create an effect of perspective, reflect the teaching of Cimabue.",
    "10562": "The scene shows the young couple in the house of Sarah's parents, WEdna and Raguel. It is interesting to note that Tobias looks too young to wed.",
    "9308": "Giovanni Arnolfini, a prosperous Italian banker who had settled in Bruges, and his wife Giovanna Cenami, stand side by side in the bridal chamber, facing towards the viewer. The husband is holding out his wife's hand. Despite the restricted space, the painter has contrived to surround them with a host of symbols. To the left, the oranges placed on the low table and the windowsill are a reminder of an original innocence, of an age before sin. Above the couple's heads, the candle that has been left burning in broad daylight on one of the branches of an ornate copper chandelier can be interpreted as the nuptial flame, or as the eye of God. The small dog in the foreground is an emblem of fidelity and love. Meanwhile, the marriage bed with its bright red curtains evokes the physical act of love which, according to Christian doctrine, is an essential part of the perfect union of man and wife. It has often been noted that two tiny figures can be seen reflected in it, their image captured as they cross the threshold of the room. They are the painter himself and a young man, doubtless arriving to act as witnesses to the marriage.",
    "27279": "In this small painting by the Amsterdam artist, against a dark background, illuminated by an invisible source, precious objects decoratively arranged form a still-life that is particularly effective in its subdued colour tones and juxtaposition of textures. In the choice of objects and of a dark background Streeck follows Willem",
    "14910": "The painting illustrates the Old Testament story of Elisha confronting his servant, Gehazi (2 Kings 5: 25-26). It depicts a standing boy on the left, his back turned towards the viewer and averting his eyes as a seated greybeard raises an admonishing forefinger to the right. Naaman tells his lord this",
    "15624": "The painting depicts a theatrical scene from the tragedy Panthea by Tristan L'Hermite. This explains why the figures are dressed in superb plumed hats.",
    "11300": "The death of the saint and his ascending soul are here linked to the requiem mass to create a solemn representation peopled with many figures.",
    "25697": "These window framings, with their nude youths atop festoons of fruit, are primarily decorative displays of artistic virtuosity; at the same time they contain elements - for example the tondo with the chiaroscuro depiction of Time revealing Truth - that can likewise easily be seen as referring to the theological content of the frescoes as well as to the work of the confraternity.",
    "1080": "This panel depicts a winter scene with a windmill and figures on a frozen river.",
    "15843": "Vivid, violent colours and excited gestures lend solemnity to the scene. The philosopher's heroic austerity is captured in his vigorous torso, standing out against the symbols of his moral asceticism> the barrel he has chosen to live in and the lamp he uses to seek out a virtuous man.",
    "17273": "The polyptych's central panel depicts the Madonna and Child with St Anne and is flanked by four wings showing Sts Catherine of Alexandria, John the Baptist, Anthony Abbot and Agnes. The lateral saints, meanwhile, have retained their original pinnacles, each depicting one of the evangelists.",
    "4218": "Elegantly dressed and decorously posed, the subject betrays a hint of social pride that tempers domestic moderation with the mindfulness of wealth.",
    "28351": "In this memorable landscape, the waves on the pond, whipped up by the breeze, sparkle; the walls of the isolated cottage shiver in golden glows; the profiles of the tree trunks and branches are lit up by bright threads of light; the crests of the hills and the outlines of the mountains loose their composure in a myriad of fragments of light.",
    "24669": "The sculpture represents the face of a tramp known as Bibi.",
    "11767": "These angels on the right-hand outer wing of the Baroncelli Polyptych are making music in a lively fashion. The strong, vivid range of colours is striking; together with the contrasting shade of gold it spreads rich colour tones throughout the whole altarpiece.",
    "11409": "This detail shows the torturers of Christ in the Mocking of Christ scene.",
    "6272": "The Anglican dignitary is depicted with his wife in the left foreground, out for a stroll and pointing to the cathedral.",
    "29235": "A feeling of abstraction pervades these scenes, today no more than a group of fragments of faded and almost undecipherable images, in which we can make out a few architectural structures shown in accurate perspective and some monks laid out according to geometric patterns.",
    "13928": "The almost abstract chromatic perfection does not impede the impression of truthfulness: the white patch in the foreground, for which it is hard to find an explanation in the subject, emerges from the darkness of the cape with the same sharpness sensed in the model's arrogant gaze and grumpily crumpled chin.",
    "29815": "This panel depicts the sick coming to pray at an Italian shrine. In the foreground, a man lies on an improvised litter very like a coffin.",
    "31540": "It is typically Pre-Raphaelite in that it illustrates a vulnerable and doomed woman and is bathed in natural early-evening light. The lady is portrayed staring away from the crucifix, which sits beside three candles. The tapestry she wove during her imprisonment was found draped over the side of the boat.",
    "22125": "Behind the Queen of Sheba, kneeling in adoration, is her retinue of aristocratic ladies in waiting, with their high foreheads (according to the fashion of the time) emphasizing the round shape of their heads and the cylindrical form of the neck. Their velvet cloaks softly envelop their bodies, reaching all the way to the ground. The almost perfect regularity of the composition is underlined by the two trees in the background, whose leaves hover like umbrellas above the two groups of the women and of the grooms holding the horses.",
    "13565": "One looks towards the right bank with the dominating dome of San Simone Piccolo, the other looks in the opposite direction to the church Santa Lucia on the left bank which was pulled down to be replaced by the railway station.",
    "12798": "This picture shows the characteristics of the thirties, and an all-over airiness that grows in transparency towards the far distance, with its brightened horizon.",
    "13327": "This fascinating portrait of the Palumbo-Fossati still quotes from Canova, as the painter shows the young girl at the centre with her arms uplifted.",
    "28572": "The detail shows the Virgin Annunciate. In an age that was completely shaped by Christianity, it would have been obvious that the two top panels, showing Mary on the right and an angel on the left, belonged together as an Annunciation.",
    "23507": "The group in the left foreground, for example (made up of an old man on the shoulders of a young man, and a child), may be drawn from the episode of the Aeneid in which Aeneas escapes with his father, Anchises and his son, Ascanius.",
    "9652": "The painter adopts a relatively high viewpoint here, providing a plunging view of the food added to the arrangement and other table utensils.",
    "27798": "The painting glorifies the province of North Brabant and its towns as they enter the Union of Utrecht.",
    "4244": "The detail shows members of the hunting party.",
    "13762": "This picture, depicting a Satyr squeezing juice from a bunch of grapes, is an example of the rare work of David de Haen, one of the central figures in Rome in the decade immediately following the death of Caravaggio, and an important link between Italy and the North through his interpretation of Caravaggism.",
    "18277": "The wings, which show Sts Lawrence and Dorothy on their exterior, were once part of a devotional triptych. The centre is supposed to have been a Virgin and Child crowned by angels.",
    "11431": "The diagonal arrangements of the angel formations lead down to the main register, whose centre - also the centre of the wall as a whole - is occupied by the judge of the world, emphasized by his size and colourful aureole. Golden rays in the interior of the aureole surround the figure of Christ; he turns to the blessed and extend his right hand to them in invitation while his left points to the damned in dismissal. A ring of angels, four blowing trumpets, surround the judge of the world like a second bright gloriole.",
    "28006": "This scene is on the left wall of the vestibule, opposite the Sacrifice of Iphigenia.",
    "14256": "This painting portrays an unidentified man, half-length, standing before a green curtain.",
    "4056": "This painting depicting a coastal landscape with fishermen with their catch by a ruined tower is a collaborative work of Jan Brueghel the Elder and Joos de Momper.",
    "17166": "The accompanying saints are, however, radically changed.",
    "14306": "Characteristically, he portrayed farm animals along the banks of a stream or in a farmyard, depicting them in a faithful, if not idealised, manner.",
    "13210": "El Greco portrayed the apostles with a powerfully expressive body language.",
    "21759": "King Tarquinius Priscus, who is standing on the left, observes an architect, bent to draw on the ground the foundations of the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. In the background, an animated crowd watches the event, also celebrated by musicians playing trumpets standing on the base of the columns. The crowded, lively composition with its focus on the foreground, also includes a view of ancient Rome in the background, and is closely influenced by Raphael's style in the Vatican Rooms, in particular in the Room of Heliodorus and in the one of the Fire of Borgo, and in the preparatory sketches for the tapestries in the Sistine Chapel.",
    "13249": "The main figures on the right of the painting who stand by as the horrid spectacle unfolds have been variously identified as Paris and Helen, Adam and Eve, Poseidon and Cassandra, Apollo and Artemis. The main figures are usually said to be male and female but there can be no absolute certainty, owing to its condition, that the figure looking out of the painting to the right is female.",
    "6709": "In this painting Courbet depicts a fellow-student and boyhood friend.",
    "9570": "The sensuality of the colours and the skilful placing of the figure prevail over the inky darkness of the shadows. And the young cavalier, as he places the symbols of his iconographical identity in the shadows, offers himself to the light resplendent in the brilliantly colourful tokens of his rank and his era: the red plumed cap placed boldly on his head, the downy collar and his olive-green jacket with its fashionable slashed sleeves.",
    "16298": "This panel depicts the Virgin and Child before a green curtain with an open book.",
    "14400": "He likes to open up his compositions with various outlooks into a shiny distance, and his luminous skies of an intense white and blue permeate the whole with sparkling daylight.",
    "23136": "In this characteristic representation of St Jerome, alerted by a trumpet announcing the Last Judgment, he turns his gaze in its direction.",
    "27185": "The familiar figure in armour with spear, shield and helmet, the patroness of institutions of learning and the arts, seen in civic heraldry, sculpture and painting, is only one of her many aspects. The scene is a wooded mountain-side where the company of Muses are playing their instruments or perusing books. Pegasus is seen in the background.",
    "16473": "Mary, standing in profile, is accompanied by angels of the same stylistic type as those invented by Botticelli.",
    "2993": "Earlier it was thought that the central panel represents the martyrdom of St Julia, a saint from Corsica.",
    "7802": "This study for an oil painting depicts in the centre the financier and collector Ernest May (1845-1925) under the portico of the Paris stock exchange.",
    "15348": "The fantastical landscape with its winding paths and striking curvature, is a backdrop for the story of Jacob's dream.",
    "13482": "This picture shows a detail of monochrome painting above the door.",
    "15585": "This painting shows Christ rising to heaven above a compact group of the twelve apostles and the Virgin Mary. Only the feet and lower legs are visible. St Peter, identifiable by his baldness and the yellow of his cloak and the Virgin Mary kneel in the immediate foreground arranged symmetrically around the composition's vertical axis.",
    "11974": "The pantheon of pagan divinities that surround Jupiter are for the most part paralysed with fear.",
    "6182": "The picture shows an oval ceiling panel in the east end section of the vault of the Grande Galleria in the Palazzo Colonna. It depicts The Transfer of Command by Pope Pius V.",
    "12282": "The village was famous for its fortified cathedral, built like a ship, the curious design of the thatched roofs of its cottages, and its fishing fleet. But the novel opportunities of the place were the sea and the colourful boats. The motif of small boats drawn up on the beach also occurs in the work of Monet in the 1880s.",
    "7261": "This painting belonging to the Bolognese Classicism shows a triangular composition formed by Andromeda (at left), Pegasus and his winged white horse (at the top) and the monster (in the lower foreground).",
    "7147": "In Cranach' depiction the jealous husband  is portrayed in sharp profile on the right, the judge in his ermine-trimmed robe is on the left.",
    "26369": "The picture shows a view of the frescoes in the Brizio Chapel of the Duomo at Orvieto. The figures seen in the vaults show the blessed in heaven as part of a panoramic Last Judgment began in the chapel by Fra Angelico in 1447 but left incomplete.",
    "21772": "In the Visitation fresco in the Pucci Chapel, Perino turned what was actually an intimate occasion into a many-figured scene that unfurls across a broad stage in front of a large architectural backdrop with numerous spectators expressing their joy and their astonishment over the event heralded, the incarnation of God.",
    "2669": "Elegant parks with beautiful birds are the sites of Bogdány's high society genre scenes. The exquisite components, such as fountains or antique ruins, enhance the grace and refinement of the composition.",
    "31971": "The man and boy on the left and a couple and child in front of the tomb were adopted from Houckgeest but are now less distant and isolated. The figures in the centre have become a second family with a young servant and greyhounds, one of them catching the other dog's attention and a brilliant fall of light.",
    "30569": "This charming portrait of a girl is unfortunately in a very poor state of conservation and suffered from numerous extensive restorations. It is furthermore marred by an ugly pattern of cracks. The girl is seen against a neutral, dark background, very nearly black, which establishes a powerful three-dimensionality of effect. Seen from the side, the girl is turning to gaze at us, and her lips are slightly parted, as if she were about to speak to us. She is inclining her head slightly to one side as if lost in thought, yet her gaze is keen. The girl is dressed in an unadorned, brownish-yellow jacket, and the shining white collar contrasts clearly against it. The blue turban represents a further contrast, while a lemon-yellow, veil-like cloth falls from its peak to her shoulders. The girl's headdress has an exotic effect. A particularly noticeable feature of Vermeer's painting is the large, tear-shaped pearl hanging from the girl's ear; part of it has a golden sheen, and it stands out from the part of the neck which is in shadow. There is surely a similar explanation for the Head of a Girl dressed in a smart, grey dress (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York).",
    "25698": "Above a high 'basamento' he painted an illusionistic high-columned hall on three of the walls which forms the supporting scaffold for a series of differently framed, large 'quadri riportati'. The decorative system gives the impression of being in a room in which an art lover is putting his treasures on display.",
    "8569": "The design of the frame decorated with roundels, the three pairs of angels flanking the throne and the sweeping gesture of the Child's blessing hand, show undeniable similarities to Cimabue's Maestà, now in the Louvre but at that time in the Church of San Francesco in Pisa. The entire structure of the throne reflects the influence from beyond the Alps: the panels are slender mullioned windows, the foot-rest is supported by a light double arch, the back is crowned with delicate arching and little pinnacles. The iconographical interpretation is also new in that the angels holding up the throne no longer form the crowning part of a solemn and magnificent background but are all looking towards the Virgin in attitudes of intense emotional participation. In the medallion placed at the top is the image of Christ. On his left are twelve figures, mostly prophets and patriarchs, among whom are: John the Baptist immediately next to the Redeemer, King David crowned and with the psalms, the young Daniel holding a roll. On the right of the Virgin, the Apostles, to whom the Child is turning to give his blessing, represent the New Testament. Peter and John the Evangelist are the first of the saints, many of whom are complete with books and scrolls that refer to the Gospel and in a more general sense underline the importance of preaching. In the centre is St Augustine of Hippo, whose rule guided the Dominican friars. On the left are Catherine of Alexandria and Dominic. On the right is Zenobius, early medieval bishop and patron of the city, accompanied by Peter the Martyr, the then recently canonized founder of the Confraternity.",
    "2603": "In the background is the annunciation to the shepherds, as well as the Holy Family in flight to Egypt twice and the Magi on horseback. The represented saint in the foreground are Catherine of Alexandria, Christine, Peter, and John the Baptist.",
    "4356": "Nocturnal celebrations here give the artist the opportunity to transform the city under the dazzling light of the fireworks, offering the observer an unusual vision of streets and palazzos cloaked in a magical, almost supernatural atmosphere.",
    "21089": "The painting depicts the Thronum Gratiae (Throne of Grace). The Thronum Gratiae traditionally shows God the Father seated on a throne, with his legs slightly apart, holding the arms of the cross of Jesus in front of him in his hands, while the dove of the Holy Spirit flies over them (or between them).",
    "26278": "The picture shows the English battery before the Morro Castle.",
    "28762": "The Cupid fiddling with his magnificently decorated helmet sets the portrait in an allegorical-mythical context.",
    "20724": "In this genre scene three men are depicted relaxing in a sparse interior as one plays his violin and the others jovially hold a pipe and vessels for drinking. The scene is set in a basement, the light creeps in beneath the floor boards above.",
    "6784": "A ripe young woman stands in a doorway holding a tapestry aside with the back if her hand. She carries a basket overflowing with fruit, quite as her bodice seems about to spill its abundant contents. Although the woman presumably is entering the room in which the viewer finds himself (that he is male need not be debated), it also seems that she has paused in the doorway, inviting him to withdraw to a private space.",
    "19587": "David was a shepherd boy who became king of Israel. The armies of the Philistines and Israelites were ranged against each other. Goliath of Gath, the Philistines' champion, was over eight feet tall with a helmet of brass, a coat of mail and greaves of brass on his legs; he had a spear like a weaver's beam. The two combatants approached exchanging taunts. David took a stone from his bag, slung it and struck Goliath on the forehead, felling him. Michelangelo's fresco depicts the last moment of the fight before the soldiers in the background. Out of the darkness a blinding light illuminates the figures of the protagonists - David and Goliath - locked in mortal combat, with a field tent in the background, while, in the corners on both sides, faces of soldiers may be discerned in the shadows.",
    "31591": "The personalities of these players were stock characterizations; the figure in the centre is Pierrot, who was cast as the amiable yet unsuccessful lover who was constantly ridiculed. Despite the animated gestures and flickering light, a certain tender pathos pervades the scenes.",
    "25027": "The picture shows one of the ceiling frescoes in the Ladies Apartments where the paintings contain motifs related to women (Virtue, Ariadne, Andromeda).",
    "26569": "It represents St Louis of Toulouse seated with his brother, Robert the Wise, kneeling before him. The altar is important for its format. It consists of a large upper panel containing the image of the saint; and a predella beneath containing five small scenes showing episodes taken from his life. In the predella, set in an arcade, there are five small pictures with scenes from the saint's life. They show: 1. his acceptance of the episcopal office, on condition that he would at the same time be permitted to enter the Franciscan order; 2. his entry into the Franciscan order and consecration as bishop; 3. washing the hands of the poor and inviting them to his table; 4. Louis on his bier; 5.",
    "19416": "Her pose, hairstyle, neckline, the piece of jewelry worn at the collar and the gesture of her right hand are all identical.",
    "14623": "It depicts a provocative scene of a wanton student (the prodigal son?) in the company of two prostitutes and a procuress carrying an infant. The pages of an immense open folio on the table are brilliantly illuminated by candle-light as is the semi-nude torso of the theorbo-playing prostitute. One of the pages illustrates an older man and a nude child, most likely Cupid, beating a woman who holds a large book. The opposite page shows a Latin poem.",
    "23057": "The monumental figures (Judith, David, Samson, Jael) have an imposing physicality, emphasized by their bright colours and strong contrasts.",
    "31982": "De Witte portrayed the synagogue during a service, with believers wearing hats draped with pale yellow talliths, or fringed prayer shawls. To the left of middle is the teba, or bimah (the platform in the middle of a synagogue from where the Torah is read), with on it the cantor and the parnas, or synagogue president, and against the back wall the Hechal, or Holy Ark.",
    "498": "In this immense panel we have one of the most important work of Andrea (who is there represented in the person of the Apostle seen from the back, half-turned towards the spectator) on account of the fine composition divided between earth and sky, the figure of the standing Apostle serving as link between these parts.",
    "10081": "Friedrich's native town becomes a symbol of longing for a better world. The prancing horses, the geese and the pond reflecting the sky reinforce the sense of idyll.",
    "24550": "Rippl-Rónai portrayed the musician Riccardo Viñes Roda, who lived in Paris, when the latter visited the artist's studio after his concert at the Music Academy in Budapest. The solemn-coloured expressive portrait depicts the figure of the Catalan pianist with a fine empathy.",
    "18454": "The Virgin is represented here by this anonymous artist working in Tuscany in the Byzantine manner as the Queen of Heaven, seated on a throne held up by two angels who look out at the viewer in the Byzantine manner. Below, the two saints, St Dominic and St Martin, are identified by their names.",
    "29220": "In all three the battle scene is interpreted in terms of a chaotic melee of horsemen, lances and horses in a desperate struggle, portrayed through an endless series of superimposed and intersecting perspective planes. See, for instance, the elaborate heavy armour, the leather saddles, the gilded studs, the horses' shiny coats, and of course the splendid \"mazzocchi', the huge multifaceted headgear that Uccello often included in his pictyres due to the specific difficulty of painting it in proper perspective.",
    "9049": "The arrangement of the exotic bed, with its fancy head- and footboard, the canopy above, the table, and the platform seem to have been inspired by Rembrandt's Danaë of 1636.",
    "28276": "In a very fine and measured luministic web the figure of Christ, wrapped in a white mantle, stands out like a shining blade against the crowd and the architectural scenery. He is centred by a bright ray of light and stands tall in front of the hypocritically bureaucratic judge that is Pilate who is portrayed in red robes and as if sunk in shadows. Certainly taking up the idea of Carpaccio in his St Ursula cycle, Tintoretto portraits the old secretary at the foot of Pilate's throne. He leans against a stool covered with dark green cloth and with great diligent enthusiasm notes down every moment, every word spoken by the judge amid the murmurings of the pitiless crowd which obstinately clamours for the death of Christ.",
    "27933": "The picture shows one of the few remaining fragments.",
    "9069": "The lady beside a fountain, three-quarter length, is said to be the Marchioness of Montchevreuil.",
    "16303": "Figural compositions are for the most part secondary to the architectural layout, and the only place figures appear, besides the ceiling is along the two short walls where there are depictions of The Temple of the Arts and Mars Accompanied by Learning, Truth, and Eloquence. The picture shows the short wall with Mars Accompanied by Learning, Truth, and Eloquence.",
    "18215": "On the right side, the Baptist's Sermon at the Jordan scene wraps around the corner into the window embrasure, where a group of John's listeners are depicted. Here we find three men with portrait-like features.",
    "27115": "In this detail, the young man casts roses at the pig, and Steen is thus referring to the proverb \"Strooit geen rozen voor de varkens\" (literally: Do not spread roses before pigs [i.e. To cast pearls before swine]), generally used to connote the offering of something valuable to somewhat who is not cultured enough to appreciate it.",
    "9408": "This painting represents a view in the village of Rijnsburg, a community situated to the west of Leiden. The view shows an alley known as the Pijlsteeg (later known as the Tramstaart) in Rijnsburg, with to the right the Rentmeestershuis of the Knighthood of Holland, the tower of the Abbey Church and the perimeter wall of the Beguinage.",
    "12055": "The centre panel (48 x 25 cm) shows Christ crowning the Virgin surrounded by saints; while on the left wing (48 x 13 cm) is the Nativity, on the right wing (48 x 13 cm), the Crucifixion. Above are the Archangel Gabriel and the Virgin Annunciate.",
    "7978": "Eros. Startled Eros awakes and flies out of the window.",
    "12352": "The trees in the garden have an assured air.",
    "11738": "The way in which Giotto creates the opportunity to heighten the expression is illustrated by this detail, which shows the saint directly next to the Virgin's throne.",
    "14108": "The painting depicts a richly laid table in studied disorder.",
    "950": "This portrait depicts an old man composed largely of books piled one above and against each other. An open book on top of his head forms his hat. The figure is held together by a cloak shaped from the drapery in the background. The librarian has been interpreted as a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a learned collector and scientist who was in charge of the Emperor's Kunstkammer and who arranged his numismatic collection and his library.",
    "13963": "This serious and austere painting represents a group of everyday objects which are arranged in an orderly fashion on a table top. In the foreground, creating the central motif of the composition, are some cakes and rolls, while to the right is a cheese mould and on the left some cups and jars.",
    "15826": "The artist's focus is on the defining moment of pathos as Rinaldo takes his final leave of Armida, with the hero caught between guilt for abandoning the unconscious Armida and the pressing need to follow his destiny, placed in the hands of Fortune, who is depicted holding the tiller.",
    "17198": "The e portrait of Bishop Tommaso Negri belongs to this group, together with the Portrait of Andrea Odoni, the Portrait of a Young Man, and the Portrait of a Lady as Lucretia.",
    "16625": "From the centre of the arched top of the panel the hand of God the Father has launched the dove of the Holy Spirit. Its spiraling flight path, outlined in glittering gold, is about to end in the Virgin's womb from which emanates a small scattering of gold rays. The Virgin's transparent veil gently softens the curve of her neck and shoulders, Gabriel's peacock wings echo the curve of the arch. The one inclines his profiled head and bends his arm in gentle deference, the other responds with grave humility.",
    "17487": "The town, seen through the window on the left, resembles to Mainardi's native San Gimignano with its tall towers.",
    "12696": "Like Velázquez, he has placed himself at an easel in the background, to one side of the canvas. The eyes of Goya are directed towards the spectator as if he were looking at the whole scene in a mirror. Since there are 12 figures in the group it is likely that the woman seen in profile and the woman whose head is turned away — the only two whose identity is uncertain were not present at the time. Goya's magnificent royal assembly is dominated not by Charles IV but by the central figure of the Queen, María Luisa, whose ugly features are accentuated by her ornate costume and rich jewels. For some unknown reason this was the last occasion that Goya is known to have painted any member of this royal family, except for the future Ferdinand VII, who stands in the foreground on the left.",
    "30447": "This painting depicts a fruit and flower garland around a bunch of grapes, with roses, tulips, sweat pea, anemone, field, bindweed, larkspur, hibiscus and martagon lily.",
    "4320": "The saints flankig the Virgin are St Jude, St Simon Zelotes and the young St John the Baptist.",
    "18699": "The facial type with high rounded forehead and an inlet in the hair on both sides, and the Child with his awkwardly turned leg, are both typical. The round throne and the canopy held open by angels is an invention of the master himself and a recurrent motif in his oeuvre.",
    "6663": "The painting depicts the Colonnade erected in 1684 on the grounds of the château at Versailles.",
    "3105": "Two angels are lifting the child up to the Madonna, who is lost in thought. Almost casually, she gently holds her child's feet, and he is looking at his mother in just as solemn and spellbound a manner as the two angels. Behind the group, which is composed to form a powerful, elegant linear design, is the corner of a wall, an allusion to the Hortus Conclusus, the enclosed garden which is a symbol of Marys virginity.",
    "25866": "As far as its original appearance can now be reconstructed, this great Franciscan altarpiece, like Duccio's Maestà in Siena Cathedral, showed the Madonna and Child enthroned in the front main tier facing the congregation in the nave. The back, facing the friars in the choir, depicted Saint Francis Triumphant standing on Insubordination, Luxury and Avarice and surrounded by eight smaller scenes from his life ranged in two tiers on either side. It shows one of the key events of Francis's life, cited in the process of his canonisation: the impression on his body of the five wounds of Christ. Giotto had already depicted Saint Francis in the same pose, kneeling and raising his arms to the six-winged seraph-Christ. Mountain shadows darken the stuccoed façade of the chapel, with its Virgin and Child above the door; Saint Francis's cord belt casts a shadow on his habit, and his parted fingers on the ground behind his shoulder. The miracle - which has caused the wooden cross in the makeshift oratory to bleed and makes of Francis an 'alter Christus,' a second Christ - is felt throughout the natural world, a red sunset staining the Umbrian hills.",
    "7064": "In front of the landscape setting, one of the putti swings diagonally across the picture in a loop of rope suspended somewhere above the scene. As he swings, he turns towards his companions. Below him to the left two boys with raised arms stand ready to give him a shove when he swings back, and behind then is a girl seen in rear view looking pensively at the swinging boy. Above the scene, surrounded by a menacing black cloud, the women can clearly be seen as witches as they gallop naked across the sky on bull, boar, and serpent. They are led by a knight in an elegant nobleman's outfit, mounted on a billy goat.",
    "7051": "The centre of the scene is a pool filled with water. Some steps lead down to the pool, which is surrounded by a fantastic landscape far from civilisation. In the left half of the picture wrinkled and frail old women are brought up on carts and stretchers. They are undressed and examined by a doctor before stepping into the water where the gradual process of rejuvenation takes place. Their wrinkles and old sallow skin disappear, their flesh becomes rosy and smooth, and they turn into young girls. As they emerge from the water they are welcomed by a cavalier who shows them to a tent where they receive new clothes. Old peasant women are transformed into young ladies of the court who indulge in the carefree pleasures of life. The jollifications at the festive table, the dancing, music and lovemaking, all take place in a lush flowering landscape. These are the realms of eternal youth, to which the hardships of old age, set in a barren rocky landscape on the left side of the picture, form a stark contrast. The fountain spouting water from the spring into the pool bears the statues of Venus and Cupid - evidence that this is actually a fountain of love rather than youth, and that the power of love is the true source of immortality.",
    "10950": "Giovanna Tornabuoni is idealized to the extent of becoming an \"icon\" of beauty for young Florentine girls, while the old man with the boy is painted with a pitiless degree of realism. The painting in Madrid depicts Giovanna degli Albizzi in a magnificent garment made of gold brocade with tight, slitted silk sleeves. In a fresco in the Tornabuoni Chapel, Giovanna is depicted as an entire figure witnessing the Visitation. The delightful young woman now stands out, in a clear contrast of light against dark, from the black niche in the background. She is wearing a valuable piece of jewelry, comprising a ruby in a gold setting with three silky shining pearls, hanging from her neck by a delicate cord. There is a very similar item of jewelry on the shelf behind her, and this, combined with red coral beads against the black background, gives the work a noble elegance. These beads are part of a rosary, and the section that is hanging straight down emphasizes the vertical line of her back, and also directs our gaze to the prayer book.",
    "15973": "Porus’s elephants can be seen lying dead in the background.",
    "24128": "The resting Mary in the background indicates that the scene is connected with the flight of the Holy Family to Egypt.",
    "2947": "Lust is punished in the lower right-hand corner, where an amorous sow tries to persuade her companion to sign the legal document in his lap. Perhaps he is a monk, for the sow wears the headdress of a nun. An armoured monster waits near by with an inkwell dangling from his beak.",
    "22810": "This distant view with atmospheric changes and a large proportion of sky, are typical features of Dutch painting.",
    "5569": "A broad cross-section of male society pays homage to its naked idol, who is holding court under a white canopy in a room which looks out over the countryside. The female figure has been stripped of her individuality, and lies defenceless and exposed to the men's gaze; she is subject and object, exploiter and exploited all in one.",
    "8281": "At the corners of the ceiling, figures of the Vices are chained to strongly projecting rocks. Sloth is a handsome young man, naked and sleeping placidly. Lust appears in the form of a laughing faun. Above the Vices are four rosy-toned monochrome oculi with putti engaged in virtuous activities.",
    "2078": "Notable is the landscape in the background, a fantastical view of the city of Jerusalem, with a plethora of oriental domes, flat roofs and the dominant bulb atop the spherical building in the centre.",
    "28029": "During the destruction of Troy, Aeneas flees the city, at the order of the gods, to establish a new city in Italy. A storm drives him to the shores of Carthage. Accompanied by Achates, he makes his way to Dido, the queen of Carthage. His mother Venus appears to him along the way and carries the two men, enveloped in a cloud, unscathed to Carthage. Aeneas and Achates stand on the left of the picture, while Venus, accompanied by Amor, hovers above them to the right, and is in the act of transporting them on a cloud. Ships lie at anchor in the background.",
    "2952": "The picture shows a detail of the right wing which represents the Musicians' Level (after Fraenger). One nude figure is attached by devils to the neck of a lute; another is helplessly entangled in the strings of a harp. Several huge musical instruments figure prominently in Bosch's conception of hell. There is a human figure stretched across the strings of a harp; another writhes around the neck of a flute, intertwined with a snake; a third peers out of a drum equipped with bird-like feet, the next one plays triangle while reaching out from a hurdy-gurdy, and even the smoking trumpet displays an outstretched human arm. It is difficult to conceive that the group of damned souls would sing a hymn from the musical score fixed to the reverse of the reclining figure in front of them - although this has been proposed by some scholars. The ensemble, lead by an infernal monster, could more likely be a parody.",
    "31732": "The detail of the left panel shows the baptism, the confirmation and the confession (penance).",
    "5838": "The Baptist, in the centre, emphasizes the vertical axis around which the whole scene is organized, with pair of saints arranged symmetrically at the sides.",
    "6326": "Copley has rendered the varying textures of her muslin cap, silk dress, and lace cuffs with remarkable precision; in painting the table surface upon which she rests her hands, he demonstrated a degree of technical competence equalled by few of his contemporaries.",
    "8493": "The Massacre of the Innocents is flanked by the standing images of Prophets Malachi and Jeremiah. Rachel is weeping for her sons). The despair of the weeping mothers who form an animated group is dramatically conveyed; they are in contrast to the rhythmic, unhurried gestures of the two soldiers who continue the destruction unmoved.",
    "6593": "The middle layer shows the signs of the zodiac, while below are rendered the courtly events appropriate to the particular time of year. In the centre of it there is the goddess, on the left a group of poets and magistrates, on the right women with symbols of feminine labour. The middle layer represents the zodiac sign Aries, while the lower layer depicts a hunting scene.",
    "29215": "Uccello designed the four male heads, usually called prophets, looking out from four roundels designed in perfect perspective.",
    "26484": "The vine-tenders and the gardener.",
    "12706": "She is about 20 years old and is profiting from the emancipation of women cautiously proceeding in Goya's day. Her face is no longer concealed by a veil, and she looks self-confidently out at the viewer.",
    "12082": "The Virgin and Joseph are kneeling - almost symmetrically placed - on either side of the crib which, viewed end-on, adds depth to the scene. Angels are crowding round behind the crib in order to be near the Child. Through an opening in the wall in the right background one has a glimpse of the shepherds in the fields, receiving the glad news. On the left side of the picture, two of them rush in, baring their heads as they enter. The entire scene is revealed to the observer by two prophets in the foreground, who draw the curtains back and create the illusion of 'unveiling' it.",
    "2381": "This landscape depicts the Augustan bridge on the Nera river, and the Nera river valley in the region of Terni near the town of Narni in Italy.",
    "16138": "A young woman, cooling herself with a damp handkerchief, is surprised by an older man wearing heavy, fur-lined clothes.",
    "24660": "With an expression of assumed innocence, he greedily accepts the gold and silver coins poured into his hand from a cornucopia by a female allegorical figure. He anxiously clutches a small, apparently classical statue he has just acquired, index ringer insinuated significantly between its legs. It is not surprising that the life-size statue of Venus - perhaps a self-portrait of the young painter herself - is turning away as if in distaste.",
    "27628": "This pastoral genre piece depicts a shepherd and a shepherdess and their flock along a path in an extensive Arcadian landscape.",
    "2063": "This still-life depicts a vase of roses and tulips, a ham on a pewter plate, glassware, a lobster and fruit on a ledge.",
    "8294": "The painting was inspired by the story of Apollo and Daphne in Ovid's Metamorphoses: Apollo is singing his love for Daphne and interrupts his performance at the moment when the nymph is transformed into a laurel tree (allusion to Laura) in the landscape on the left. Apollo accompanies his song on a viola da braccio, the instrument played by Duke Alfonso.",
    "10953": "Giovanna Tornabuoni is idealized to the extent of becoming an \"icon\" of beauty for young Florentine girls, while the old man with the boy is painted with a pitiless degree of realism. The boy is gently snuggling up to the old man. Their eyes meet on a diagonal: this balances the composition, and also excludes the observer from the intimate scene. The boy is looking upwards along the old man's outline, which means that he is actually looking directly at the enormous nose projecting towards him. The contrast makes the little boy's snub nose, and the way his mouth is opened in astonishment, appear all the more childlike. The old man is sitting in the corner of a room in front of an open window The delicacy of the beautiful view of the landscape is, so to speak, a commentary on the profound companionability of the two generations. A soft light is falling an the faces through the window, and the old man is lit from the right and the boy from above. As the lit halves of their faces are turned towards each other, and the same bright red is used for the garments and cap, producing a richness that contrasts with the gray wall behind, the two figures seem to merge to form one. The man's nose, disfigured by a skin disease called rhinophyma, has in recent years led to the writing of several medical essays.",
    "1192": "Tancredi, Prince of Salerno and father of Ghismonda, slays his daughter's lover, Guiscardo, and sends her his heart in a golden cup. Ghismonda, the daughter, pours upon it a poisonous distillation, which she drinks and dies.",
    "30791": "The Scuola's emblem - a hand blessing the Cross - rests just below the apex of the midground tympanum, ,while in the foreground, on either side, the arms of the donor families adorn the bases of two columns.",
    "13585": "The detail represents St Dominic, holding lilies in his hand, looking up to the Virgin.",
    "25232": "Io, the beautiful daughter of the river god Inachus, fell prey to the passion of Jupiter, who - in order to hide her from his jealous wife - turned the girl into a cow. The wily Juno talked her husband into giving her the fine-looking animal and had the hundred-eyed Argus guard it. The inventive god (the Greeks called him \"Hermes dolios\", the schemer) approached the meadows, herding some goats which he had stolen along the way, and played songs on his pipe. Mercury watches intently as Argus is mesmerized by the sound of the flute, and he is already reaching for the weapon with which he will behead the sleepy guardian. Rubens depicted a fipple flute in place of a Pan-pipe.",
    "28895": "Markedly erotic and therefore offensive to respectable society were the evening dances, which brought out the police - visible in the right-hand background of the picture. In the right foreground is the picture's original owner, the landscape painter and friend of Lautrec, Joseph Albert (c. 1865-1928).",
    "7021": "The arms and the deer would also fit this category.",
    "32294": "The picture shows the fresco on the ceiling of the choir in the Catholic parish and pilgrimage church of Sts. It depicts the The Presentation of Christ in the Temple.",
    "9511": "A picture shows the central predella panel with scene from the story of St Mary Magdalene.",
    "8141": "The subject derives from Virgil's Aeneid (V, 485) where warriors are described competing in an archery contest and shooting a tree with their first arrow, a ribbon with their second and a falling bird with their third.",
    "32001": "The painting shows the church of Santi Marcellino e Pietro, from the Vigna Ciccolini, with the Palazzo Laterano, the church of San Giovanni in Laterano, the Ospedale di San Giovanni and ruins of the Claudian Aqueduct beyond.",
    "14526": "However, as a consequence of the small format of the panel painting, the heavy shoulder chain that the king wears in the monumental portrait is omitted here, and his sleeves are embroidered with a very delicate gold thread. Holbein depicts the King at `face value', without flattery, emphasizing the small, humourless eyes and mouth, the curiously flat cheeks and chin.",
    "612": "The detail shows the head of St Matthew from the right panel.",
    "30793": "Apart from Christ, it shows only Mary and an angel, against a dark background.",
    "6592": "This view of the Salone dei Mesi in the Palazzo Schifanoia shows, from the left to the right, frescoes of the months of September, August, July, June, May, April, and May, respectively.",
    "18807": "The robust features of the individual saints are impressively depicted. Ornamented with discs of gilded Venetian glass and strips of marble encrusted with semiprecious stones, the chapel seems like a Byzantine treasure chamber.",
    "27860": "The detail shows the angel of Fame, sounding a trumpet and Prudence, with a serpent wound around her arm and reflecting upon her image in a mirror held up by a putto. To the right, Evil falls from the sky - a horrible old woman terrified by the appearance of Glory.",
    "32067": "In this painting a hawking party with horsemen, falconers and their hounds in a landscape is depicted.",
    "7926": "Tired but determined, the guided mule plods on, a bedraggled Napoleon on its back.",
    "27902": "In the foreground, by contrast, hovers the dark, austere figure of St Gaetano, immersed in a diffuse and uncertain light.",
    "8985": "The detail shows the scene Daniel in the Lions' Den (after the recent restoration).",
    "1946": "This photo shows Bellini's altarpiece as seen today in the San Zaccaria church.",
    "18935": "He was attracted by two subjects - the cycle of nature and the world of social outcasts. Mistry hills, lakes, moonlit forests end the endless scenery of the plain are transposed into pictures in warm greys and browns. The dejected walking figures in the rainy landscape are surrounded by pearly shimmering wetness.",
    "18461": "In this chef d'oeuvre of the painter the Madonna is displayed on the central panel of the altarpiece, wearing a blue-green robe and a wide-spreading crimson mantle. Backed by the rainbow disk of the sun, she is seated on a throne, the crescent moon beneath her feet and the Infant Jesus on her lap. Two white-robed angels floating above her place a crown on her head. She is flanked on both sides by galaxies of angels in yellow and green; the two at the foot of the picture hold a scroll with the first verse of Chapter 20 of the Revelations of St John inscribed in Latin. The figures are ranged in symmetrical and equal masses around the Madonna, who acts as the central magnet of the composition. The accumulation of colours vibrating in the corona gives the air of a third dimension to the picture.",
    "11934": "In the still Italian air, Chateaubriand's hair is windswept (Napoleon mischievously said the portrait looked like that of a conspirator who had come down a chimney), hinting at the storms and passions that had lashed his best-known creation.",
    "8207": "In this painting the three kingdoms are represented: the Purgatory in the centre background, the Hell at left, and the heavenly City at right.",
    "8965": "The picture shows the wall paintings from the cupola of the chapel apse of one of the buildings in the monastery complex at Bawit. Within the enclosed area were two churches. The cupolas of the chapel apses commonly show the enthroned Christ in the upper register, while the lower register usually has the Virgin, sometimes holding the Child, accompanied by Apostles, monks or archangels.",
    "11774": "Christ appears to be irritated by their failure to understand. The only relaxed figure is the nameless, curly-locked donor, who is already preparing the towel to dry Peter's feet.",
    "24215": "The buildings are painted with considerable accuracy, the soft pinks and creams of their sunlit walls contrasting with the rich blue of the sky and reflecting in the undulating waters of the canal.",
    "1897": "The detail shows the landscape at the right side of the painting.",
    "30197": "In this scene on the end wall of the room, a donkey that has been starved for days kneels kneels down before the Host rather than eating the food offered  it. The animal's owner, who had doubted that the Eucharist was holy, is converted from his lack of faith.",
    "13764": "In this mature work of the artist, in the left of the composition the wine god Bacchus is depicted, adorned with a crown of wine leaves and laying on a red robe. He embraces a nymph, whose blond hair is decorated with ribbons and minute flowers.",
    "17036": "The elaborate, cruciform picture field is formed of an elongated rectangular panel with five lobed extensions at the top and sides and an antependium with attached acanthus decoration. Most of the height of the painting is filled by the cross and the body of Christ, with blood running from his wounds down the shaft of the cross and spreading in rivulets over the rocky landscape below. At the foot of the cross kneel two figures in adoration of the crucified Christ: at the right is St Mary Magdalen in a long red robe, and at the left is a hermit, wearing a coarse brown tunic torn at the shoulder. Below them, emerging from a crevice in the rocky ground beneath the foot of the cross, is a bust-length figure of King David with a halo and a crown.",
    "11137": "The picture shows one of the ends of the ceiling in the Galleria Riccardiana (above the entrance) depicting Pallas Athena Handing Ingegno the Golden Key to Recognition of Veritas. Assisted by Mercury, the god of commerce and eloquence, Pallas Athena is presenting a gold key to a personification of Ingegno, identified by an eagle helmet. This key will allow him to recognize Veritas, who is kneeling next to him. On the left Athena is presenting a hammer to two women identified as Industria and Artificium by the tools and utensils lying on the ground and by a swarm of bees. Seated on a rock is a youthful Amphion (or Orpheus), whose lute-playing casts a spell on the denizens of the air and the Roman she-wolf.",
    "102": "Amid fowls, sausages, beef, pork, fish, butter, cheese and pretzel, the eye of a flayed ox's head disconcertingly seems to watch the viewer. Almost unnoticed at first, the stall permits glimpses of a tavern on the right and a landscape behind. The ground around the inn is covered with oyster and mussel shells, which in some context - as here - allude to their consumption as an aphrodisiac. Among the tavern's revellers is a prostitute with a possible customer. Meanwhile, groups of people, dressed in contemporary Netherlandish attire, walk through the countryside towards the church visible at the far left. Only the mother riding the donkey stops to give alms to the poor. Led by Joseph, she and her son are journeying to Egypt, to escape Herod. Although beset by their own troubles, the Holy Family shares what they have with the less fortunate. His pilgrimage of life offers a choice between a materialistic and morally questionable existence on the one hand and the spiritual path of the Holy Family on the other.",
    "27619": "In a large, open, barn-like structure, which serves as a guardroom, groups of monkeys wearing soldiers' uniforms are grouped around tables playing cards and back-gammon.",
    "6434": "A female figure, reclining and as if lost in thought, is sufficient to lend this, one of the Barbizon master's most elegiac landscapes, an incomparable mood of loneliness and yearning.",
    "26823": "The artist has chosen to view the Summer Spire against a dramatic night sky where the moon breaks through the clouds and makes the chalk cliffs appear luminously white against the dark surroundings.",
    "3347": "The focus of the composition of the Bath of Venus is the youthful and beautiful Venus, the soft contours of her figure highlighted against the rich greens and blues of the background. The youthful goddess is one in a long line of Boucher's female nudes.",
    "23597": "In the spandrel of the right-hand short wall Mercury appeals for Psyche to be found. His body expands across the entire surface of the spandrel into the corners and flies out toward the viewer.",
    "23716": "The crimson blood splashed on the steps, the decapitated body, and the severed head itself impressed an enthusiastic Théophile Gautier with their realism, which he imagined to have been studied at first hand in Morocco.",
    "25509": "In this peaceful river scene. various vessels float along a river whose blue surface is slightly rippled by a gentle breeze. Beyond the bank at right rises the tower of Liesvelt Castle - a fortress that sat along the bank of the Lek River in South Holland until it was demolished in 1740.",
    "9911": "About 40 characters, each one visually identifiable thank to the artist's careful graphic research, crowd into the main scene. Christ is crowning the Virgin on a strange podium which is held up by angels. Above them, Francesco uses steep perspective to include a whirlwind image of God the Father. As a result, while one might expect to see the two kneeling saints from above or the central group of Christ and Mary from below, they are all seen almost straight on. Christ, the dominant image on the central axis, is in the act of crowning the kneeling and proportionally somewhat smaller Mary. His left arm, thrust across the body, forms a wedge below the nearly diamond-shaped head. A swirling God the Father, surrounded by zodiacal signs and angels, supervises the uppermost zone. Mary and Christ rest upon a flat cloud bank shown in sharp foreshortening (although the figures themselves are not foreshortened). On a ledge in the same zone, seated figures - including St John the Baptist cross-legged on the left and crowned King David holding his lyre on the right - and handsome angels imply a semicircular distribution in space, a compositional innovation that will find reverberations in the following decades. Along the sides, hosts of saints are piled up in the narrow vertical strips, recalling a Sienese tradition that goes as far back as Duccio di Buoninsegna's Maestà of the early Trecento. The spaces are hard to reconstruct; the surfaces are overcrowded; the colour strong although unnatural. The twisting, winged, nude putti of the Coronation, who help support the cloud bank, are modifications of Donatello's tiny angels in the Sienese Baptistery. Bodies are usually heavy, arbitrary, and abstract, without special attention to the light sources; for example, the St Dorothy standing on the extreme right edge of the picture with the flowers gathered in her garment. Her long face, accentuated by a strong chin and a wide-eyed expression, is curiously personalized, suggesting deep intensity and even an affliction, often found in Francesco's somewhat melancholy vision.",
    "5660": "This painting shows the bust length portrait of an unidentified man.",
    "4325": "This painting depicts four fashionably dressed figures in a courtyard. Their sumptuous attire is depicted with virtuosity.",
    "3930": "King Nimrod is paying a visit to the building site, stonemasons going down on their knees before him.",
    "11405": "This dramatic scene takes place at night. Torches shine out among the sticks and halberds against the blue of the sky. The throngs of people crowd into the centre, towards Christ, who is betrayed by Judas' kiss.",
    "21822": "The detail shows the head of Pericles.",
    "1788": "The miracle, which occurred through contact with a processional candle which had touched the relic of the Holy Cross, takes place inside a chapel which is in large part occupied by an extremely elegant ciborium surmounted by the eagle symbol of St John the Evangelist.",
    "8075": "This painting depicts a still-life with melons, plums, cherries, and bread on a table draped with a white damask tablecloth. In the panel the artist has combined a number of his favourite table elements.",
    "31903": "The painting represents a Dutch Warship off a harbour firing a salute; a rowing boat approaching with a crowd cheering and waving.",
    "8278": "The ceiling of the staircase was frescoed by the French artist Louis Dorigny, who displayed a masterly skill in his use of perspective, opening up an oval space on the ceiling that frames a view of sky in which the scene Minerva Casting Out the Vices unfold. To the sides, four large, faux Palladian windows, half-hidden by groupings of clouds, hold two theologian virtues - Hope and Charity - and two cardinal virtues - Justice and Fortitude - all accompanied by their respective attributes. At the corners of the room, figures of the Vices are chained to strongly projecting rocks. Above the Vices are four rosy-toned monochrome oculi with putti engaged in virtuous activities.",
    "26246": "The picture shows the ceiling with the fresco Night and Dawn in the former queen's bedroom in the Palazzo Reale in Turin.",
    "21195": "The painting depicts a winter landscape with figures on a frozen river, a town beyond. Highlighted near the centre, a group of figures stand in conversation, amongst whom a white horse - a recurring motif in Isaac van Ostade's work - stands with its head bowed.",
    "1977": "It also shows the influence of the vibrant energy of Donatello and the rigorous plasticity of Mantegna, made softer and more natural by Bellini's use of colour.",
    "7725": "The painting shows two horses galloping, one of which ridden by a gentleman in a white suit.",
    "12969": "In the centre of the Shrine of the Madonna della Tosse the Madonna breast feeding the Child is depicted. She is surrounded by St Peter with the keys and a book, St Catherine with a broken wheel, St Margaret with a cross, and St Paul with a sword and book. In order to create the impression of a real altarpiece, several angels are holding a curtain around the altar painting. At the bottom edge of the picture, as if placed there quite by chance, Benozzo has painted a small pointed panel painting showing the face of Christ.",
    "7723": "It depicts a landscape with a village road and figures conversing in the right foreground. A dense growth of trees encroaches on the village, having already hidden from sight a cottage nestled in its midst.",
    "14793": "Hunt depicts the animal as an exile living in this uninhabited place, bearing the sins of the Jewish people (according to the Old Testament another goat was sacrificed, and it is this one, drowned in the sea, whose horns can be seen on the left). The white goat, symbol of purity, a trickle of blood on its horns, prefigures the Messiah wearing the crown of thorns, who, through his Passion, was to redeem the sins of the world.",
    "4859": "This painting offers in the head of the giant Goliath a last and painful self-portrait. The scarred, haggard head of Goliath with its vacant gaze speaks of the painter's profound anxiety.",
    "32005": "To the left, across the river, we can see the quay known as the Porto di Ripa Grande, with the two long stairways and the customs building, behind which the small tower of Santa Maria della Torre is just visible. Further along the same bank of the Tiber, right before the river bend, lies the Palazzina Pamphilj and its garden, obscuring the Ponte Rotto. The tall tower on the horizon in the middle of the composition stands on the Capitoline; to its right are the Torre delle Milizie, the dome of Santi Luca e Martina, the Quirinal and the campanile of Santa Maria in Cosmedin. On the right riverbank near the Via della Marmorata, marked by a few blocks of marble, is an array of houses of various shapes and sizes, gardens and places of work. Lying in the Tiber below, there are the remains of a bridge that has long since collapsed and, further in the distance, those of the old Ponte Sublicio. A galley and two two-masters are moored at the Porto di Ripa Grande, while some rowboats, a large, flat-bottomed barge and an impressive rowing-sloop can be noticed. Among the figures strolling on the right a few monks can be distinguished as well as a gentleman who looks rather Dutch. A recurrent feature in his panoramas is the plateau in the foreground or a section of a wall or a cliff, enlivened by a small group of figures. One of them, in this case the man with the oar, serves to lead the spectator's eye into the composition. In the foreground the painter looks down — in this case at the men in the rowboats — and then his eye is drawn to the middle of the composition and finally into the background. The painter induces the viewer, through the guide with the oar, to revolve a quarter circle from left to right, to survey the entire panorama.",
    "17907": "With this Virgin beside the sleeping Child surrounded by St Catherine of Alexandria and four angels, Maratti alludes to the Virgin and Child paintings of the late fifteenth- and early sixteenth-century Italian masters.",
    "15653": "By contrast, La Tour's Magdalens appear in profile with dark, straight hair, seated at a table in an austere interior.",
    "27319": "\"Our Mother\" shows an old woman sitting in a high-backed armchair, resting her hands on an open book but glancing up from her reading. In the beautiful features of his mother, the artist has managed to express the understanding and wisdom acquired over a long lifetime. Her distant look and the faint smile are reflections of her soul.",
    "23183": "Prouvé represents his friend Emile Gallé working on a vase, surrounded by a few of his glassware and floral inspirations. In this portrait, two physical characteristics of Gallé have been accentuated: his wide, airy forehead (traditionally a sign of intelligence), and his hands, particularly his left hand holding a vase (elongated, reminding us of Gallé's manual profession).",
    "9866": "The Saint is in a 'scriptorium' (a codex workshop) full with monks whose white and brown clothes reveal that they belong to a branch of the Hieronymite monks, the Lupian hermits.",
    "15563": "The painting depicts a smoky interior, the poorly lit Grand Café, with its gentlemen reading the papers and smoking cigars. In the foreground is an uncleared, deserted table. The subject has just come in from the street. He is clearly a dandy, wearing a dark coat with a voluptuous fur collar and sporting a moustache and eyeglasses. In his gloved right hand he holds a burning cigarette, the swirl of smoke drifting into the bluish haze of the room.",
    "8274": "The interior of the oratory is covered in frescoes which are better preserved than those in the main hall. The vault of the central space contains a depiction of Elisha and the Chariot of Helios. To the sides, in ovals edged with laurel wreaths, the figures of the Fathers of the Church are portrayed with almost comic-like wit. In the presbytery, the altar is a good example of trompe l'oeil painting. On the ceiling, the Holy Spirit accompanied by angels cherubs is represented. The pendentives hold monochrome figures of the Four Evangelists.",
    "23497": "The third (at right) shows the bewildered Peter led by the hand of the divine messenger: the angel leads the stunned and still-sleepy St Peter past another sleeping guard.",
    "18325": "The detail represents the soldier turning back in the central part of the painting.",
    "7600": "The detail shows the Virgin.",
    "24432": "The story of the rape is told through five couples, arranged symmetrically. They show the same motif from various viewpoints. The central couple is modelled on Bernini's marble group The Rape of Proserpina.",
    "18567": "In the open state, it displayed a large central image of the Virgin and Child enthroned in the company of saints, flanked by thirty smaller scenes ranging from God Warns Adam about the Tree of Knowledge, through the life of the Virgin Mary and the Passion of Christ, to the Last Judgment, all on gold ground. The small scenes were arranged in three rows of ten, with the subjects progressing chronologically across each row, skipping over the Virgin and Child at centre, from the upper left to the lower right. It shows the dead Christ on the Cross flanked by the Virgin Mary and St John the Evangelist. An additional female figure, probably the Virgin's sister Mary Cleophas, stands at the far left.",
    "4818": "The detail shows the head of the Madonna.",
    "30777": "The young John the Baptist stands at the meeting point of the two compositional diagonals formed by the figures of St. Joseph, St Francis and St Jerome, who are invested with a look of detached spirituality. The colour is made vibrant by a continual juxtaposition of light and dark tones. The diapason of Veronesian colour is achieved in the portrayal of the Virgin and child set against the damask of the niche. Unfettered by convention, Veronese has placed the infant St John the Baptist half naked at the centre of the composition.",
    "7890": "They include the Jewish Wedding in Morocco, The Fanatics of Tangier and The Sultan of Morocco and his Entourage. Instead, he concentrated on creating a spectacular open-air scene in bright light, with vivid colours and monumental protagonists.",
    "12356": "The foreground, painted as if the grass and poppies are immediately beneath our feet, seems to tilt and slide forwards and downwards, thwarting the intended planar recession to the infinitely more distant background.",
    "12658": "It is in fact a rare example of a landscape by Goya, taken from the far side of the Manzanares River with the city's landmarks on the horizon, and in the foreground the crowds amusing themselves as at a fair, the pilgrims hard to distinguish among the animated crowds. On a tiny scale, Goya has included the pilgrims lining up to enter the church, a picnic scene and a group at the miraculous well.",
    "24269": "In the left fresco on the altar wall in the Sala Capitolare St Anthony is seen soon after his arrival in Padua, preaching to establish peace among the citizens of the city.",
    "1759": "The fanciful interlacing of zigzag lines and the sharp contrasts of light and shade intensify the sense of mental anguish evident even in the face of the donor, on the right (perhaps a portrait of Bellange's ducal patron).",
    "10610": "In the central panel, the Virgin is shown being crowned by Christ, in the presence of God the Father and the Holy Ghost. The refined and delicate composition is made up of the three weightless figures - which seem to be disembodied in their draperies - and insubstantial elements, such as the radiant and flaming nimbus that supports the apparition of the Trinity. Curved forms - including the band of angel musicians, the contours of the figures of Christ and the Virgin, and the crowd of seraphim around God the Father - echo the arched shape of the panel. In the side panels, the bodies of the saints also disappear within the fluid coils of their robes. The red, white and gold robe of St Jerome and the pink and violet costume of Mary Magdalene contrast with the more sober brown of St Francis' habit and the black of St Dominic's mantle. The feet of the other figures remain invisible, hidden by their robes and the thick carpet of flowers. St John the Baptist and St Francis, shown kneeling in profile, are squeezed in among rocky peaks without regard to realistic proportions. Similarly, St Anthony is placed in a narrow garden, hemmed in by the wall and the door which emphasize the atmosphere of private meditation.",
    "26263": "The painting represents the two children of the artist, Sasha and Yurra Serov.",
    "10748": "The cycle, seen in the twelve lunettes on the walls, was intended to show the sacrifices offered by characters of the Old Testament, one on each wall. The cycle ends with the representation on the vault of three episodes from the New Testament, connecting the theme of the transition from the Old to the New Testament.",
    "10390": "The painting shows Lot and his daughters in a panoramic landscape with the towns of Sodom and Gomorrah in flames.",
    "21988": "This portrait of the twenty-seven-year-old prince Frederick II moves from the real to the ideal, from the documentary to flattery. Pesne politely foreshortened the prince's great nose. For this portrait the new king of Prussia is suitably regal in velvet and ermine over armour, invested with the Order of the Black Eagle, which was founded by his grandfather Frederick I in 1701.",
    "18910": "This panel represents the portrait of an unidentified lady, bust length, in a black gown and linen partlet.",
    "6559": "Venus appeared once more, this time with bow and quiver disguised as a huntress, to direct them to Dido's palace.",
    "7088": "There is a companion piece showing a prince. The two children, dressed in characteristic Saxon costumes of the finest type, have been thought to be brother and sister, perhaps the children of Duke George the Bearded. The crown worn by the boy, however, signifies his engagement to be married, and the girl is likely to be his future bride.",
    "14223": "The painting shows an event in the Second Punic War: after Scipio Africanus's capture of Carthago Nova, the exceptionally beautiful virgin betrothed to the Celtiberian prince Allucius, fell into the hands of the Romans. Here the young man is shown kneeling before Scipio as he reunites the couple.",
    "30748": "The picture shows one of the three large paintings on the ceiling of the nave of the church of San Sebastiano: Esther Crowned by Ahasuerus (rectangular, in the centre), The Triumph of Mordecai (oval), and The Banishment of Vashti (oval). With Haman and his black steed about to fall, Mordecai, with the insignia of royalty, triumphs on his white horse. Haman has tried in vain to get the king to execute Mordecai, but is instead instructed to take Mordecai in state round the city on horseback. Esther and Ahasuerus watch the triumphal procession from the roof terrace of the royal palace.",
    "1281": "The hero lies on the ground, shown in foreshortened view, killed by the arrow that has pierced his vulnerable heel.",
    "31768": "The picture shows the upper panel to the right.",
    "13081": "The greater prominence of the setting - and of actual depth, in the vista on the right - compared with the paintings for Santo Domingo, the Cathedral and the Escorial, depends on the subject.",
    "2732": "A lush bouquet of flowers stands on the table. The glass vase is barely big enough to hold the profusion of tulips, roses, anemones, and carnations. Part of this red and white bouquet remains in the shadow, while several flamed tulips catch the full light.",
    "16546": "The detail shows the right group with a young man poisoned by the pestilential smell.",
    "13735": "The portrait shows Haydn in the act of composing: he is seated at a keyboard, gazing into the distance, testing out notes with one hand and putting pen to paper with the other.",
    "13158": "Christ on the Cross, at the moment of expiration, with the Virgin and Saint John, and at the foot of the Cross, the Magdalene. One subject represents one of the Joys of the Virgin, and the other incorporates one of Her Griefs. The figure of Christ of the Expiration is a continuation upwards of the central zone of the Annunciation with the Flames and the Dove; the figure of the Archangel Gabriel has its counterpart in the figure of Saint John; and the Virgin of Joy appears above as the Virgin of Grief. El Greco has introduced more of those symbols embodying spiritual emotions: the clamouring angels with outstretched arms encircling the Body of Christ - strangely recalling Giotto's painting - and the remarkable figure of the angel at the foot of the Cross.",
    "3989": "The sacred figures - the fainting Virgin assisted by St John and the other two Maries (only one of whom is shown here, on the right) - are separated from the main events by being placed on a small, rocky plateau. Larger than the background figures and isolated from them, the Virgin and her companions occupy a separate, timeless world, clearly removed from the contemporary world and yet having the most profound significance for it.",
    "28927": "Instead the voluminous red sofas dominate the picture.",
    "18545": "The scene is placed within a spacious Gothic cathedral, or, more specifically, in its vestibule. The rich colours are used to stress the central importance of Mary; the lily in the vase is a reference to her miraculous virginity. Fine-spun yellow hair frames the face downcast in devout attention; her kneeling figure is enveloped in the gold-shot fabric of her mantle, made of the famous \"Tours\" brocade, and the whole is effectively enclosed in the sombre greys of the walls.",
    "24939": "The detail shows the Crucifixion, one of the three \"window\" paintings in the background of the fresco.",
    "14775": "Its emblem, the shoe, can be seen on the frame.",
    "6119": "The Landscape with Roman Ruins, traditionally ascribed to Paul de Cock, is a striking example of the fashionable vedute - a Roman capriccio mixing together famous ruins like the Pantheon, the temple of Castor and Pollux and the Coliseum.",
    "31688": "This painting depicts the scene when King Saul welcomes David, the conqueror of Goliath. David kneels before the King, behind him are a number of soldiers holding the sword and the helmet of Goliath, whose severed head is in the foreground.",
    "29834": "In the foreground, on a low stool, a wild-looking man in ragged clothes and only one shoe riddled with holes sits grinding something in a giant mortar with an equally oversized pestle. The figure also represents an unpleasant task, one that was considered lowly because of the strong odour of some of the medicines.",
    "23533": "The background of the painting probably shows a landscape near to Rome.",
    "5487": "(Note the view of a farm village in the background, and a man defecating in the middle of the road.)",
    "28106": "The figures in the crowd, crushed close together in front of the panopticon and costumed according to class and age, turn their backs on the viewer.",
    "32044": "This picture shows a lady's bay hunter held by a liveried groom in a classical landscape, with a hound and a peacock looking on.",
    "3052": "A niche frames the bouquet nicely and closes off the composition.",
    "24037": "Led by a young woman, a group of people are playing music in a room. She is reading the music from the sheet, singing and beating time. The two men are accompanying her on their instruments - the young man on the harp and the older man on a viola da gamba. An older woman is reading over the girl's shoulder, listening attentively with her hand on her chin. In the foreground is a violin, a lute and a pile of books.",
    "20861": "In this panel the traditional iconography is respected, even to the miniscule proportions of the figure of Vulciano Belgarzone da Zara who commissioned the painting, kneeling at the feet of the Virgin.",
    "12126": "The infant Jesus lies on the ground surrounded by rays of light to signify him as the Light of the world. His mother Mary, father Joseph, various angels and the shepherds stand around him in adoration. In the background, the previous moment in the narrative sequence, when the angel announces the birth of the Saviour, is depicted in the surrounding scenery. The continuity of the background landscape erases the division between the central image and the side panels, where the family who commissioned the work is shown in prayer under the protection of four saints. To the left, Thomas the Apostle and St Anthony the Great preside over the head of family Tommaso Portinari and his two sons Antonio and Pigello, while to the right St Margaret, victorious on the dragon which had swallowed her, and Mary Magdalen, holding a vial of unguent, stand watch over Maria Baroncelli Portinari and her daughter Margherita. The different proportions of the saints and the members of the family reflect their position in social and religious hierarchy. The still-life imagery in the central foreground is astonishing and abounds with symbolic references: the white iris and red lily allude to the theme of purity and Jesus's blood spilled during the Passion of the Christ, the purple columbine represents the sorrow of the Virgin Mary, while the carnations symbolize the Holy Trinity. When closed, the triptych showed a depiction of the Annunciation, painted in black and white on the verso of the doors.",
    "1727": "The painting depicts a still-life with a large Wan-Li porcelain dish of fruit, a pewter dish of fruit, medlars and nuts, a moth, two Venetian-style glasses of wine, one white and the other red, a knife with an ornamental handle, white grapes, a roll of bread and half a peach. The composition of this still-life is typical of Osias Beert: a rather formal array of containers filled with fruit, supplemented with wine glasses, bread, and a knife, interspersed with some small items.",
    "14033": "Van Hasselt painted himself standing behind the bride. Sumptuous pies and sweets suitable for this festive occasion are spread out on the table. The delicate salt cellar and elegant golden chalices ostentatiously held by two of the guests were likely made by two family members who were goldsmiths, Berent Janssen van Hasselt and Peter Jacobsz. Although the scene depicts a contemporary wedding, the bride and the groom, and a few of the guests, are dressed in antique robes and turbans. In addition, the groom wears a golden crown. He and his bride sit under a canopy supported by two antique-style columns.",
    "14804": "This portrait represents a countess wearing robes for the coronation of James II.",
    "12319": "The optimistic note sounded by the candle flame is underlined by the presence of the sprouting onions, taken from his Yellow Chair (a 'self-portrait'). On the other hand, van Gogh has added his pipe and tobacco and an empty bottle, possibly once containing absinthe, all of which endangered his health.",
    "21521": "The count stares out at the viewer, calmly daring anyone to challenge his innate physical and intellectual superiority. In his right hand he displays a bronze medal marked with the mysterious ciphers \"7\" and \"2\", which must have had significance for him and his close circle of friends, but whose inscrutability serves to distance him from the rest of humanity.",
    "13739": "Van der Haagen painted the landscape (the woodland and the grass in the foreground), while Wijntrack, a specialist in wildfowls, executed the birds.",
    "30852": "In particular, he changed the location of Christ, who no longer dominates the centre of the scene but is placed on the left-hand edge of the canvas, while the long table is now set diagonally instead of being viewed from the front.",
    "11271": "A simple man spreads out his cloak before the young nobleman. While Francis receives the tribute with a terse gesture, the other bystanders react with a lack of understanding. The scene of the action is clearly established, for the temple, which marks the distance between the main protagonists, is the Minerva Temple in Assisi, which can still be seen today.",
    "16910": "The subject of the frescoes are the Good and Bad Government and their effects on the life of the cities and villages. This detail shows the centre of the city. In the middle the dancing young women probably represent the nine Muses. There are several genre like scenes in the picture (shops, chatting men, riders, working men on the roof etc.)",
    "10868": "The detail represents the portrait of Lorenzo de' Medici (in the centre) with members of the donor family, the Sassetti.",
    "26689": "His portrait of Christian II reflects a king whose close family ties to the imperial Habsburg court drew in into the centre of European art and culture.",
    "3009": "Here, across the three inner panels, appear the First and Last Things, beginning with the Fall of Man on the left wing. The story recounted in the second and third chapters of Genesis has been placed in a lush garden; in the foreground we see the creation of Eve, followed by the temptation of the First Couple. In the middle distance they are driven from the garden by an angel. The expulsion of Adam and Eve from Eden is paralleled above by the expulsion from Heaven of the Rebel Angels, who are transformed into monsters as they descend to earth. These were the angels who sinned and whose prince, envying Adam, caused him to sin in turn.",
    "10584": "It should be read as if it were the text of a tale, beginning at the top left corner, where the three Magi, meeting at the seaside, notice the star they have to follow. If we follow their course among sloping hills and cultivated fields we can see how they march into Jerusalem under the frame of the central arch, while in the lunette on the right we can see them departing. In the middle distance the direction of their journey changes, proceeding towards us and suddenly the mass of people appears from a deep ravine flanked up by a precipitous rock and a fence. Now we can discern the faces too, and observe the smallest details of garments, arms and harness. Then the crowd, which can pride itself on hunters, noble chargers and exotic animals too, stops at the right-hand corner of the foreground, having reached its destination. Only here does the youngest King's page remove his master's spurs; having sunk to one knee the second King is on the point of handing over his gift, whereas the oldest, who has already presented his, is kneeling and kissing the Infant Jesus' foot. The elegant handmaids of the Virgin are taking delight in the lovely sight. On the shores of the endless sea, underneath the left upper lunette, the figures of the three Magi on the summit of a mountain are surrounded by an atmosphere of cosmic stillness, while the march itself is exceedingly animated. Lively conversations are in progress, the horses are ambling and the limitless wonders of nature attract the travellers' attention. The scene of the Magi paying homage (also in the left-hand side) is calm again, emanating profound devotion and meditation. The somewhat dilapidated gate and the cave separate the principal characters from the episodes narrating what had happened earlier and it gives them some quiet in the otherwise overcrowded composition. Nor did he forget the spectator, since the donor of the altarpiece, Palla Strozzi, standing behind the youngest King, is looking at us.",
    "7972": "The picture shows Arrival at the Hermitage, panel 7 from the series of 7 with unique compositions that share imagery, colour harmony and decorative motifs.",
    "3863": "They are playing with pieces of wood, with bones, with hoops and barrels - specially crafted toys were rare in the 16th century.",
    "14941": "To the right of the panel is King Ahasuerus, accompanying his wife Esther to Mardocheus, her cousin, in order to honour him and thank him for his loyalty, naming him his advisor. A moment from before the story is shown in the background. While he sleeps Mardocheus is plagued by dreadful foreboding in his dreams. When he awakes, he hears some court dignitaries conspiring against Ahasuerus, who is quickly warned of their plot. In the background, outside the city walls, we can see a hanged man who may be Aman, Ahasuerus's advisor who had tried to convince the king to kill all of the Jews and who had been unmasked by Esther, saving the fate of her people. The painting concludes the story of biblical heroine Esther.",
    "2921": "In the Christ Carrying the Cross, the head of Christ is silhouetted against a dense mass of grimacing soldiers and ill-wishers, one of them bearing the familiar toad on his shield. Christ's physical agony is heightened by the spike-studded wooden blocks which dangle fore and aft from his waist, lacerating his feet and ankles with every step. In the foreground, soldiers torment the bad thief while the good thief kneels before a priest. The almost frantic intensity of his confession, well-expressed by the open-mouthed profile, contrasts vividly with the passive response of the priest who seems to suppress a yawn.",
    "1364": "The painting represents a portrait of an unidentified gentleman, bust length, wearing a black jerkin and white ruff.",
    "6335": "The painting presumably shows Jacques van Eyck, the chief justice of Antwerp in the bosom of his family. They gather on the terrace of their palace.",
    "15196": "Here the figure of Christ is somewhat over-bland and insufficiently assertive amid the agitated crowd gathered around the looming rocks of the tomb, but Mary, the sister of Lazarus, takes on the role of heroine, distressed yet decorous, and very consciously posed, in garments of gleaming white, gold, and green, to hold the centre of the stage.",
    "5927": "The painting depicts an episode from the Odyssey (Bk 10).",
    "10882": "This view shows the Coronation of the Virgin in the lunette of the window wall, and part of the vaulting with three of the four evangelists.",
    "24824": "This painting depicts a river rushing through a rocky northern landscape.",
    "24058": "The seated figure of a wise old man is outlined against an obscure background, his face and hands brightly illuminated by the light from a candle. The light shining on his face is echoed in the glow from the back and the copper candlestick, familiar objects that give a feeling of warm intimacy.",
    "13200": "In this painting Saint Dominic is depicted, simply dressed in his black and white habit, in a moment of quiet piety in the wilderness, kneeling in prayer before a simple, model crucifix propped up against a rock.",
    "26052": "This whole world, together with the two figures, is supposed to represent the transitoriness of everything essential. A single withered rose exhales its white innocence in contrast to the wreaths of flowers on the two heads. The figure on the right is said to represent Gustav Klimt, though there is no substantive evidence to support this identification. The resemblance between the figure on the left and Schiele is more apparent.",
    "24970": "The altarpiece portrays the Virgin and Child between St John the Baptist, St Antony Abbot, St Stephen and St Jerome. The faces of saints, darkened by heavy shading, are utterly devoid of that serenity which characterizes the figures in traditional altarpieces. In the figure of St Jerome, the sunken abdomen, the prominent sternum, ribs and collar-bone of the chest area, and the skeletal thinness of the neck, arms and fingers, reveal unquestionable links with the studies of decomposing or flayed bodies that began to interest a great number of Tuscan artists from the 15th century.",
    "12997": "His haunting Crypt of San Martino ai Monti, a view of the vaults which were once part of the ancient Baths of Trajan, includes a female corpse in its white shroud, while a hooded priest and his acolyte prepare for the committal.",
    "23612": "This painting, which the literature today tends to ascribe to Giulio Romano rather than Raphael, shows the Madonna in the foreground casting an affectionate eye on the young Christ Child and St John the Baptist, who play in front of her. With one hand she makes a reassuring gesture toward her own mather, St Anne, who is represented in a meditative position. St Joseph sits in the background to the left under the shelter of several ruined classical buildings. On the right there is a serene landscape illuminated by touches of pinkish light.",
    "6468": "Virgin and Child enthroned, on their left SS.",
    "20262": "The Infant is shown holding a spindle, referring to his attire at birth and at death, the miraculously expanding garment woven by his mother that lasted a short lifetime.",
    "2677": "This still-life depicts fruit on a stone balustrade.",
    "5992": "Claude sets this melancholic subject among overgrown ancient ruins.",
    "24475": "He is portrayed in the year of his death, with his beloved Florence - symbolized by Brunelleschi's miraculous dome - in the background.",
    "32384": "Rinaldo and Armida are a pair of lovers in the poem which is an idealized account of the first Crusade which ended with the capture of Jerusalem in 1099 and the establishment of a Christian kingdom. It has a pendant depicting Abraham with the three Angels.",
    "22690": "Temperance, considered as the capacity for moderation and the right measure, is shown here as a young woman in the process of mixing hot and cold water, pouring it from a ewer to a basin.",
    "10162": "According to the principle of selection and in a clear iconographical reference to Snyders, Fyt has assembled a bouquet of the finest, most striking birds. With his eye-strewn plumage, a peacock - the bird sacred to Juno, mother of the gods of antiquity - lends noble and radiant beauty to the whole picture. A Brazilian parrot, a crowing cockerel with a comb, a gallinaceous bird and two herons are each adding their own song to the cacophonous concert of cawing, screeching, squawking, crowing and cooing. Meanwhile, a jay looks wonderingly at a blank music book that has wedged itself in a bough, at the foot of which lies a dead dove.",
    "11260": "The picture shows the north wall of the third bay of the nave with scenes Nos.",
    "7786": "The artist's fascination with form and structure is reflected in the analogy between the watering can (used to wet down the dust on the studio floor) and the dancer at the right. The handle on the side imitates her left arm, the handle at the top mimics her head, and the spout approximates her right arm and raised leg.",
    "519": "Andrea di Bartolo and his shop specialized in small devotional pictures like this one, which was owned and used for personal meditations by the woman (donor) whose tiny figure we see kneeling in prayer at the bottom of the panel. The Virgin is dressed in gold brocade and is attended by angels in gestures of prayer and respect. From the flight of seraphim above, Christ blesses her and the child at her breast. Mary is honored here as the Queen of Heaven, yet she sits not on a throne but on a simple cushion on the ground. The reverse of the double-sided panel depicts the scene of the Crucifixion.",
    "10701": "The Raft of the Medusa marks the first appearance in a painting of 'the ugly' and thereby proclaims its scrupulous respect for the truth, however repulsive the truth might be.",
    "7264": "As in the versions of these older masters, Creti has painted his Sibyl wearing a turban (practically an iconographic shorthand for an exotic, oracular figure), and holding up a book. He has chosen to paint her in profile, one of his favourite compositional devices, and one which allowed him to create idealized portraits of women of extreme elegance and originality.",
    "30759": "The ceiling painting in the sacristy of San Sebastiano, the Coronation of the Virgin, is framed by pictures of the four evangelists sitting, kneeling or reclining, accompanied by their symbols (eagle, ox, lion and angel), and, in their over life-size dimensions, they seem to burst out of the pictorial fields. In the four pictures, the open book is a reference to the subject as writer of the gospel of the same name.",
    "12868": "He is at the head of  a cortege which includes Cosimo de' Medici, Piero the Lame and his brother Giuliano. Lorenzo's face is characterized by shining eyes, a strong, square jaw and fine mouth.",
    "20058": "The boats, the embankment, the house on the opposite bank, the trees, the bridge, and the all-enveloping sky are reflected in the water.",
    "10232": "This scene, at bottom right on the east wall, has a festive and cheerful character. The main action is not in the foreground but rather in the middle ground within the crowd of people that surrounds the ceremony. The scene is defined in the rear by a wall, but beyond the wall a luxurious garden is suggested.",
    "24464": "The picture shows the painting of the vault of the Cappella dei Santi Sacramento with Apostles in Veneration of the Eucharist, and the apse vault with the Throne of Grace. In conformity with the function of the chapel, the towering, highly animated apostles are shown gazing on the Eucharist in a brilliant aureole, framed by powerful rays of light and angels.",
    "25543": "This painting shows a still-life with a silver-gilt covered cup, glasses, a plate of oysters, a capon and a Chinese porcelain plate with sweets.",
    "9445": "The domestic setting, the fleeting glances, poses, and elegant dress are enlivened by effects of light and colour that the artist drew from his friend Ciardi. They combine to produce a serene, composed image of the family of engineer Guidini.",
    "10911": "In this detail Giovanna Albizzi-Tornabuoni is standing directly underneath the arch of a classical triumphal archway flanked by columns, just as if she were the main figure in the painting. Giovanna, who is standing stiff and rigid, is shown in sharp profile, wearing a magnificent gleaming gown and has an elegant hairstyle, unapproachable in front of her companions. The two figures stepping out through the classical gateway make it clear just how monumentally large, and how far away, the building behind them is.",
    "6699": "It shows the wife of a Frankfurt notability in a sort of timeless state of incompletion relieved only by the features of the young woman savouring the late afternoon light from her terrace.",
    "10447": "The subject, in particular the background, is treated as a configuration of flat colours, each compartmentalized and simplified, as in the enamel work from which.",
    "21907": "Now, however, Sebastian is the centre of attention, while a delicate landscape has been included, another specialty of the artist.",
    "3065": "This sumptuous still-life shows peaches, grapes, a pear and white currants in a Wan-Li Kraak porcelain dish, with shells, a lizard and a butterfly on a ledge.",
    "29441": "There, she is a virgin who rejects several worthy suitors in favour of Joseph, but Joseph will not have a pagan for a wife. She locks herself in a tower and rejects her idolatry in favour of Joseph's God Yahweh, and receives a visit from an angel who accepts her conversion. A ritual involving a honeycomb follows, and Joseph now consents to marry her.",
    "19240": "The fresco shows the influence of Simone Martini's Maestà painted two years earlier in the Palazzo Pubblico in Siena.",
    "1275": "Zeus was in love with Thetis, a sea nymph, but received a prophecy that Thetis's son would become greater than his father, just like Zeus had dethroned his father to lead the succeeding pantheon of gods.",
    "28568": "The central part of the polyptych represents the Resurrection. The landscape background is of the highest quality, with recognizable view of Brescia. The bright figure of the ascending Christ is surrounded by clouds that are lit up by the red rays of the early morning sun.",
    "17639": "This painting shows Méry Laurent, the painter's lover.",
    "19147": "The gold chalice with a serpent on the reverse side of the right wing is a symbol of redemption referring to the legend of St John the Evangelist who, ordered to drink a cup of poisoned wine, made the sign of blessing, and the venom was miraculously drawn from the liquid. The inner side of the panel represents St Veronica.",
    "23399": "The female portrait known as The Mute Woman represents a return to the influence of Leonardo. Leonardo inspires mainly the pose of the figure (whose characteristically crossed hands constitute a very clear reference to the Mona Lisa). The neatness of the large areas of colour which emerge in lighter tones from the near-black background, and the analytical treatment of the details of the woman's clothing are characteristic of Raphael.",
    "2579": "She is depicted standing in a simple high-waisted white dress, the splendid cashmere shawl draped over her right arm falling to the ground where the sun streams across it. Her hair is done in the latest fashion, while she is partially shaded by the splendid orange tree against whose large, painted wooden pot she is leaning. To the left we see some steps leading down to a winding path with a distant view of the Château of Balincourt.",
    "2432": "The painting shows a still-life of flowers in an earthenware vase on a ledge.",
    "11166": "The traditional scheme of composition is lightened by the novel use of such elements as the throne and the landscape, which takes up a good portion of the background.",
    "4975": "In the painting of the English Ambassadors' Arrival a at the Court of the King of Brittany, the first episode of the cycle of Stories from the Life of St Ursula, the splendid architectural setting, with the open loggia against the background of a view of Venice and the intimate space of the private room, divides the scene into two sections: the ambassadors deliver their message on one side and Ursula discusses the matter with her father on the other. In the diplomatic ceremony the afternoon light streams in from the left and illuminates the foreground, with patches of bright colours and sharp shadows. Below the wide portico that stretches out to the left with a row of arcades vanishing into the distance, alternating with areas of shadow, the elegant young members of the Compagnia della Calza are portrayed in poses of the most self-assured nonchalance, and showing indifference for what is happening nearby. To the right of the elaborate candelabrum, with marble and bright metal decorations, a sophisticated ornamentation that is reminiscent of the work of Ferrarese artists, the English ambassadors are received by King Maurus; they are portrayed in attitudes of deference and respect, in keeping with the rigid protocol governing public audiences granted by the Venetian Republican institutions at the time. The King sits, like the Doge, amidst his counsellors on a judgment seat against a wall covered in precious ornamented leather hangings, placed at an angle to the light and opening out onto a view of the city dominated by a round domed temple-like construction, reminiscent of Perugino and almost anticipating Baldassarre Longhena's Santa Maria della Salute. Just as the colours of the architecture are reflected in the water, so the shadows of the small figures fall like dark stripes on the red brick and white marble expanse of the square bathed in warm sunlight. The most fascinating theory is the identification of the man in the red cloak to the left, outside the main scene of the event, looking towards the spectator: he is traditionally supposed to be either Pietro Loredan, one of the patrons who commissioned the decoration of the Scuola, or a self-portrait. He stands in front of the iron banister enclosing the scene and appears almost to be drawing our attention towards the ambassadors and their message; like the young boy with the long feather on his cap who also looks out towards the spectator, a detail that was only recently (1983) rediscovered thanks to an excellent cleaning job. The nurse sitting at the far right in an attitude of resignation, on the other hand, introduces us to the conversation between Maurus and his daughter, which does not take place in an elegant and formal hall like the audience of the ambassador, but in the domestic intimacy of Ursula's bedroom. The King has abandoned all the official royal formalities imposed by protocol and simply listens to the conditions set out by his daughter. She will marry Ereus if she is granted a retinue of ten beautiful virgins; she and each of the ten shall further be assigned a thousand virgins each; and the young man who has asked for her hand shall be baptized and instructed in the faith for a period of three years. The two figures, father and daughter, are set against the canopy of the bed and the wall decorated with a devotional icon in an inversion of patches of colour that is almost an anticipation of the art of Paolo Veronese. And the harmony of colours with which Carpaccio depicts the old governess is equally masterful: she sits at the foot of the stairway leading to Ursula's bedroom and stares out into space, as though she knew what a tragic ending this royal wedding contract would lead to.",
    "14096": "The objects are put on a table, but the table is placed against a plain background which is strangely transparent with dull light. Since the back-edge of the table is obscured from view, making a measurement of space is almost impossible. Here the peeled lemon symbolizes Deceptive Appearance: beautiful to look at, a lemon yet tastes sour.",
    "23656": "Attracted by esotericism and the occult, Ranson also takes an interest in them and portrays naked witches on the Sabbath, accompanied by satanic black cats. They are gathered around a cauldron in which a hellish broth cooks, from which flames emerge in the shape of chimaeras.",
    "30117": "In the background, stylised promontories sparkle with classical buildings, and on the beach workmen draw the dragon onto land with a huge winch.",
    "23425": "Plato and Aristotle are standing in the centre of the picture at the head of the steps. Diogenes is lying carefree on the steps to show his philosophical attitude: he despised all material wealth and the lifestyle associated with it. Below on the right is a great block of stone whose significance is probably connected with the first epistle of St Peter. It symbolizes Christ, the \"cornerstone\" which the builders have rejected, which becomes a stumbling block and a \"rock of offence\" to the unbeliever.",
    "23407": "St Catherine of Alexandria is portrayed in a marvellous, twisted pose. Her left arm is leaning on her attribute, the wheel, and her right hand is pressed to her breast while she gazes up at a sky flooded with light. The landscape is painted with particular care. The delicate modelling of the saint, the slight torsion of her body as she leans on the wheel of her martyrdom (whose spikes have been reduced to rounded knobs in order to tone down the element of cruelty) fully express the balanced character of Raphael's art. The panel clearly shows the intense formal research which underlies Raphael's figurative creations.",
    "4030": "Bruegel has painted them with no trace of sympathy, but so accurately that it is possible for doctors today to diagnose the various eye disorders or the causes of blindness: the man on the left is suffering from leucoma of the cornea (so-called \"wall-eye\"), and the one on the right from amaurosis.",
    "16553": "In the lunettes below are the depictions of the martyrdoms of St John (above) and St Philip (below). Abraham and his sacrificial altar appear above the scene in which Philip refuses to make a pagan sacrifice. Noah, the earliest of the patriarchs, appears above the left wall. He is clothed in the skin of a cow and holds a staff - both allusions to his life of struggle and toil after his banishment from paradise.",
    "26372": "Wearing a black cap and cloak, as was suitable for a respected artist, an attractive and elegantly dressed man in his fifties as Vasari describes him, Luca Signorelli really looks like a director so pleased with himself for the success of his theatrical representation that he stands on stage for his deserved curtain call (Scarpellini).",
    "14686": "The soldiers, maidservants and tavern frequenters gave way to ever more sumptuously attired and elegant figures.",
    "25502": "In the left background of this typical river view by Salomon van Ruysdael, the three-story Sint Jans Tower of the Grote Kerk in Gorinchem (or Gorkum) is visible. The entire foreground is devoted to vignettes of local travel. Two boats have pulled up at a steep bank, which is provided with a ladder. In the boat with two large fishing baskets astern, the owner gestures with hat to heart. At the inn, a rider addresses local folk at the door. The rendering of the architecture in the area of the mills and ramparts in the right background, seems to be faithful to judge from contemporary panoramic drawings of Gorinchem by other artists.",
    "30792": "In fact the artist has taken an original approach to the composition with the sweeping seascape that characterizes the entire scenes; the gulf on the left is balanced on the right by the figures of the saint and the bystanders, arranged on parallel planes and along a diagonal that indicates the depth of the space in which they move. The Franciscan saint, holding the traditional white lily, is represented standing on a tongue of land, preaching and pointing at the sea, where we can see the fish that have risen to the surface to hear his words. Anthony towers over the others; the pose, expressing the passion of his oratory, recalls that of many of Veronese's figures. His gesture, which serves to articulate the downward slope of the scene toward the edge, is echoed by the figures seen from the back, both the one in the middle, in a Manneristic attitude, and that of the Oriental in the foreground. The figures wearing turbans - as was customary in the art of Venice - render the sacred content of the representation \"ecumenical.\"",
    "16226": "This imaginary historical scene reflects a tendency to idealize the remote past that was connected with the beginnings of the movement for German national revival.",
    "28181": "This still-life is composed of shot wildfowl, crayfish and fruit.",
    "22231": "We can now see, in the crystal-clear lighting, behind the hermit saint, a receding background with the perfectly straight tree trunks reflected in the winding river. The clear sky is barely dotted with little white pointed clouds.",
    "30735": "Idealized architecture conforming to the forms of Palladio and Sansovino provides the setting for the dramatic event.",
    "21609": "In his St Jerome, those bluish vistas fade beautifully into the distance under wide white skies. The painter has an exquisite way of sketching in tiny people, farms and groups of houses, or of leaving some animal - a goat or a bird - straying among the slaty blue of his rocks.",
    "22277": "The Forest Fire contains a disjunctive narrative with animals fleeing the fires. Human figures either flee also or concentrate on bringing water to the fire.",
    "23577": "Together they form a swarm of figures, isolated and in groups, arranged in an extraordinary variety of compositions and poses.",
    "18396": "The scene takes place inside a bourgeois dwelling, a novelty in the painting of the time, as until then the scene had always been depicted in or in front of a church. In line with tradition, Gabriel enters the room from the left. The Virgin is seated in front of a low bench on the tiled floor, a sign of her humility. Her right hand rests on her breast, her eyes modestly cast downwards. On Mary's lap is an open book, a second one lies on the table. In this connection, the bench is decorated with little lions, as was once the throne of Solomon, the Old Testament king who used to be seen as the epitome of wisdom. The hand broom next to the chimney symbolises the purification from the stain of sin, and the white lilies in the maiolica vase Mary's virginity. The candles and their holders refer to Christ and the Virgin. The fact that the candles are snuffed out indicates that conception has already taken place.",
    "2954": "The picture shows a detail of the right wing which represents the bird-headed monster. The bird-headed monster at lower right gobbles up the damned souls only to defecate them into a transparent chamber pot from which they plunge into a pit below. The slothful man is visited in his bed by demons, and the glutton is forced to disgorge his food, while the proud lady is compelled to admire her charms reflected in the backside of a devil.",
    "12806": "The landscape, offering a view of the watery area near Haarlem called the Haarlemmermeer, is painted in several closely related  shades of brown, ochre-yellow, blue, and green.",
    "1781": "During the procession a merchant from Brescia by the name of Jacopo de' Salis knelt before the relic of the Holy Cross being carried by the members of the Confraternity and prayed that his dying son should be saved. In the incomparable wide angle view the spectacle of St Mark's Square and the ceremony taking place unfold. On the left, the Procurate Vecchie are still the one-storey buildings there since the time of Doge Sebastiano Ziani (1172-1178); the Gothic buildings which lie beyond were demolished in the early sixteenth century to make way for the construction of the Clock Tower designed by Coducci. At the end of the square the Basilica of St Mark's still glows with the gold of the marble decorations and the Veneto-Byzantine mosaics of which only one that survives is the one above the arched doorway on the left. The Porta della Carta too stands splendid in its original gilded marble decorations, a brilliant caesura between the Basilica and the Palace of Doges. On the right, grouped around the base of the campanile stands the cluster of buildings including the Orseolo Hospice which was to be demolished in the sixteenth century so that the Procuratie Nuove could be built in its place as part of the plan for the Square produced by Jacopo Sansovino. The ancient buildings reflect the reddish bricks of the floor of the square which remained until Tirali changed them for the present grey slabs of stone patterned with white marble in 1723. While the members of the government with the Doge at their head preceded by the standard-bearers, the trumpeters and the symbols of power, are level with the campanile, the members of the Confraternity stand out in the foreground, dressed in the white of the Scuola. In the middle of the group escorted by candle-bearers a canopy covers a golden 'soler' on which is carried the precious relic of the Holy Cross.",
    "22629": "In contrast to Van der Poel's nocturnal pictures, this painting shows a brightly sunlit farmyard. In the foreground various farm animals go about their business surrounded by a jumble of baskets and buckets, a barrel, a wheel, a harness, a broken pot, a shoe, and an old hat. The farmer has climbed up a ladder to inspect a dovecote. The yard is enclosed by buildings and a fence, allowing only a glimpse of the land beyond.",
    "15786": "It is not only the erotic aura, whose \"moment of happiness\" is to be found in a glimpse under the petticoats, but also the fact that the swing is a metaphor of an interim realm belonging neither to the earth nor to the air.",
    "16567": "The figures are substantial, especially the Child, whose large head, thick limbs, and heavy trunk are almost grotesque, as is the Child's inexplicable pose. The Madonna, with her nearly round head, a characteristic type for Lippi, her rigid right arm and squarish, stumpy hands with short fingers, and the ponderous, almost exaggerated draperies continue in his art. The perspective is also somewhat forced, but the sharply foreshortened upper shutter of the window is adventurous.",
    "31746": "The scenes in the side panels depict the advent of the Son of God on earth being announced in miraculous visions to the Roman emperor Octavian (Augustus) and to the three Magi. The Christ Child receives the homage of both East and West, that is to say the whole world as displayed in the panorama of the open triptych: the West is symbolized by the Roman empire - which was regarded as the direct predecessor of the medieval Holy Roman Empire - the East by the Magi, and between them stands the Holy Land with Bethlehem, to the medieval mind the centre and navel of the world.",
    "8824": "John the Evangelist stands on the far left, holding an open New Testament from which he is reading the first verses of his Gospel. Behind him is the figure of Peter, holding the golden key to the gate of heaven. On the other panel, standing at the back, is the Evangelist Mark, with a scroll. On the far right is Paul, holding a closed Bible and leaning on the sword - a reference to his subsequent execution. The Four Apostles, witnesses to the faith, were to simultaneously function as a warning. Besides, it reads that everyone should take the warning of the \"four excellent men\" to heart: almost a formulation of the symbolic program represented in the choice of the four figures, of three apostles and an evangelist, Mark, an unusual choice that Dürer does not explain or illustrate. His position is to be on guard against the \"false prophets.\"",
    "13014": "Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Damascus, was a leper. For the figure of Elisha on the right of the composition de Grebber appears to have used the same model as for a similar figure seen in profile for his Conferring of the Sword on the Coat-of-Arms of Haarlem.",
    "16645": "The central panel, which depicted the Adoration of the Child, is lost.",
    "18660": "The Last Supper, part of the Passion Altarpiece, is seen in old-fashioned perspective, with the figures in the foreground smaller than those at the far end of the table. It includes the traditional group of Christ comforting St John, who is so overcome by learning of the Betrayal that he buries his head in Christ's lap. Judas, in the foreground, consoles himself by weighing his purse - payment for the Betrayal.",
    "31107": "Flora is the personification of spring and the synonym of youth, joy of living, abundance, wealth and fertility.",
    "24275": "With its exaggerated view from below and the extreme perspective of the rows of columns to the left and right, the work is reminiscent of Baroque ceiling paintings.",
    "9916": "The detail shows the Holy Family on the right side of the painting.",
    "19145": "The reverse side of the left wing, depicting St John the Evangelist, represents a skull, the symbol of transience.",
    "30123": "The picture shows part of the ceiling decoration of the Sala di Apollo (Apollo Room), one of the two bedrooms in the house. The supporting vaults represent the Nine Muses.",
    "15977": "The saints hands, feet and head are carved from white Carrara marble, with the hair left rough and unpolished and the nails and eyes delicately incised.",
    "26373": "The detail shows the self-portrait and the portrait of Fra Angelico.",
    "17946": "The Rio separates the monastery from the Campo della Salute and is visible in the foreground on the right. Just beyond the basilica, on the same side of the canal, is the episcopal seminary. Above the adjacent blind wall we see the tower of the Dogana da Mar. On the left side of the canal parts of Palazzo Manolesso and Palazzo Contarini Fasan can just be seen. Further in the background we can spot the Campanile of San Marco. Finally, on the horizon, the buildings of the Riva degli Schiavoni and the Castello area can be descried through the masts of the boats. The water, meanwhile, is dotted with gondolas and cargo boats, one of which is loaded with cases marked 'Roma', 'Vienna:' and 'M:S:', the last possibly Marieschi's signature. The vessels, such as the boat with the lateen sail at the quay, are closely observed. The mast of the boat with the lateen sail divides the scene in two equal halves, while the long, crooked yard and the quay wall, arranged almost perpendicular to the picture plane, serve to balance the composition. Two vanishing points, one on the extension of the quay line and the other outside the image to the right, make the corner which closed off the Campo della Salute sharper than it is.",
    "4492": "These buildings border the market where all sorts of fruits and vegetables are unloaded for distribution to shops all over the city. Painted in the middle of the canal is a distinguished-looking sloop with figures in it being rowed swiftly across the water and, nearby, another gondola being rowed by the liveried servants of the imperial ambassador.\" The curvature of the river is beautifully rendered in an arc flowing from the approaching sloop, under the dark bridge and on to the sunlit area beyond. This movement is effected by the curving roofline on the left and by the gondolas crossing the canal in the foreground, which binds the composition horizontally.",
    "13279": "Disunity in the family is prophesied, for the mother tearfully must part with her daughter, whose younger sister is also saddened, while her elder is sullenly envious. The tearful, yet ineffective females contrast with the trio of men: the dignified father praising his daughter and exhorting his future son-in-law, a serious young man who receives girl, dowry and exhortation, and the sly peasant notary who literally documents the occasion and reminds us that it is as much legal as domestic.",
    "20704": "The Countess, a stately but beautiful woman of thirty-seven, wears a magnificent décolleté off-white satin gown held by a pearl belt and arm bracelets. She wears no other jewelry and is holding in her lap a small, clipped spaniel.",
    "13166": "El Greco's choice of an elongated figure against a background of agitated sky would subsequently be extended to the depiction of other figures.",
    "5378": "It depicts Christ in judgment in the centre, seated on a wooden throne that is decorated with pearls and precious stones and was at one time partially gilded. He is surrounded by a red mandorla. The enthroned Christ is facing the viewer, but he is looking to the side. His right hand is extended toward the blessed; the left hand, which has not survived, would have been raised and presumably outstretched toward the damned in a dismissive gesture. The wounds on his feet, hands, and chest are displayed. Despite being damaged, this image of Christ sitting in judgment surrounded by the angelic hosts reveals Pietro Cavallini's sense of monumental power. The measured frontal view comes from the Byzantine tradition while the warm tones of the colours and the play of the light are definitely new.",
    "13302": "With the face leaning to the left and a pensive look, the girl in the present painting seems deep in thought.",
    "28670": "Venus, the goddess of love, falls in love with Adonis, a beautiful youth. Her love is not, however, enough to stop him pursuing his favourite pastime, hunting, which will lead to his undoing, for he is gored to death by a boar.",
    "10204": "On the two side walls the story of the Saint Cross is depicted, the Triumph of the Cross being the final and most significant scene of the cycle. There are three scenes depicted beside and above each other. On the left side the beheading of Chosroes, King of Persia, for the occupation of Jerusalem and robbing the Cross; behind and above Heraclios arriving to Jerusalem with the regained Cross; on the right side Heraclios bringing the Cross barefooted into Jerusalem. The majority of the figures are illustrated in profile. Traditionally it is believed that the man standing beside the executioner is the painter himself.",
    "17743": "The central part represents the Madonna and Child Enthroned (212 x 125 cm), the left part shows Saints Peter and Paul, Saint John the Evangelist and Saint Zeno, while the right part Saints Benedict, Lawrence, Gregory and Saint John the Baptist (235 x 135 cm each). The central section depicts the Madonna holding her Child and surrounded by music-making angels, seated on a marble throne decorated with Roman-inspired reliefs. The naturalistic trompe l'oeil garlands, seemingly affixed to the top of the picture, create a rapport with the garlands held by the putti in the marble relief at the top of the throne.",
    "19262": "The main body of the altarpiece consists of five panels: a central panel of the Virgin and Child, flanked by two panels on either side, each of which is divided into two narrative scenes, one on top of the other. The four scenes to the left of the central image depict episodes from the story of Sts Joachim and Anna and the Birth of the Virgin. Those on the right relate two miracles of the Virgin associated with the celebration of the Feast of the Conception. A predella depicting Christ and the Apostles runs beneath the main scenes.",
    "11713": "This view shows the Bardi Chapel (left) and the Peruzzi Chapel (right).",
    "24065": "The artist has captured not the splendidly armoured figure of an officer or general of his time but the tired features of an old man, who occasionally sat for him, and the gleaming splendour of an old helmet, which was part of Rembrandt's collection. The God of War, richly helmeted, is by no means unknown as a theme in Dutch painting.",
    "26726": "This painting depicts Spanish troops during the winter siege of Aire-sur-la-Lys, a fortified city on the border of France and Belgium. Snayers directs all attention to a background with steeply rising horizon, and a topographically accurate picture of the beleaguered town, derived from graphic examples, presented as if on a map unrolled before the viewer.",
    "30619": "The shade is drawn here, and though we can make out every detail in the limpid light, Baburen's Procuress hanging on the back wall furnishes the main contrast. It is curious to observe that while inanimate objects - the clavecin, the bass viol in the foreground to the left, and the decorations of the musical instrument - are extremely detailed, the curtain to the left is stiff, and the lady making music is devoid of expression, depersonalized, and faultily drawn (see, e.g., her arms).",
    "1882": "The triptych comprising large sections portraying the Madonna and Child Enthroned (in the centre), Saints Nicholas and Peter (on the left) and Saints Mark and Benedict (on the right) is signed and dated on the central panel. Its pilaster strips illusorily support the ceiling of the open space at sides in which the saints are placed. In the centre, the Virgin, raised aloft by the throne, has a lighted golden apsidiole behind her which recreates the same effect as that in the San Giobbe Altarpiece. Extremely similar, for example, is the figure of the enthroned Virgin, immersed in fine golden dust that is contrasted only by the compact blue colour of the mantle, which in some way isolates her in space.",
    "12952": "The event depicts a parable of God's mercy: Tobias, who was sent out on a journey by his blinded father, is being protected and guided by the archangel Raphael. When Tobias washes his feet in a river, he is frightened by a large fish, which he catches and guts on the advice of the angel. The innards prove to be a medicine which he can use to restore his father's sight.",
    "7861": "Delacroix enrolled as a 'garde national,' and in this role he portrayed himself, wearing a top hat, to the left of Liberty .",
    "20464": "The third scene, the Feast of Pentecost, shows the Virgin and the Apostles in a chapel-like room. Above them is suspended the dove of the Holy Spirit, which is poured out over the faithful.",
    "2969": "In this picture Bosch shows St John the Baptist seated in a humid summer landscape. Geertgen represented the thoughtful prophet staring abstractedly into space, rubbing one foot against the other, but Bosch shows him pointing purposefully towards the Lamb of God crouching at lower right. In this instance however, it also indicates a spiritual alternative to the life of the flesh symbolized in the great pulpy fruits hanging near him on gracefully curving stems, and in the equally ominous forms rising in the background.",
    "25689": "The picture shows the altar wall at the Oratory of San Giovanni Decollato, Rome.",
    "17871": "This scene shows Julius Caesar in the triumphal chariot. The triumph of the emperor, who sits like a god in his triumphal chariot, is heralded and lauded - as shown by the presence of putti, which appear only in this painting, the laurel wreath with which Caesar is about to be crowned, the sculptures of conquered warriors on the triumphal arch, and the images of the gods.",
    "24203": "The present painting features Francisca Wartenberg (left) and her sister, Angelina (right), members of an itinerant German acrobatic troupe. Ages 17 and 14, respectively, the girls take their bows after a performance.",
    "8502": "The tiled floor and the pillars, visible in the interior of the building in the Temptation on the Temple, are rendered successfully in perspective; they accompany the polygonal form of the building, without breaking up its rigorous geometry.",
    "7036": "The juvenile air, the slender forms, the tiny breasts an narrow hips, the rounded forehead, all go to make up the physical characteristics of the women (including the Virgins) represented in German art since the fourteenth century. The Venus is clad only in a provocatively transparent veil; in some paintings this is a subsequent addition, but here it is original. The better to set off the ivory whiteness of her body, Cranach has shown it silhouetted against a sombre background of foliage. The landscape conveys in a few strokes an intense impression of the Germanic conception of nature.",
    "8337": "The hour-glass and the burning candle are allusions to the transience of human life.",
    "19758": "Van Mieris highlights the shimmering satin dress and brightly coloured feather within the dark interior, encouraging the viewer to admire his craftsmanship and virtuosity.",
    "27146": "The painting shows a still-life with a dead hare and duck, fish, vegetables and an earthenware flagon, on a draped table.",
    "25694": "This scene is located on the right wall, close to the entrance wall. Instead, Salviati concentrated on fewer forms - Elizabeth and Zachariah, as well as the dove-bearing maid at the left and the women bathing the child at the right - and even dispensed with the important subject of Zachariah naming John, a subject that he had still included in his early drawing.",
    "30973": "The subjects represented here are set in a faux shaded niche and painted full length, following a style that was typical of artists between Brescia and Bergamo, such as Giovanni Battista Moroni, who was an important inspiration for Veronese. Giuseppe da Porto is wearing a heavy black tunic, lined with fur and high on the leg. He is wearing a sword in his belt and a single glove, since he has removed the other to place his hand on the shoulder of his son, Adriano. The boy is also sumptuously dressed, with an ermine-lined jacket, decorated with gold embroidery. The textured depiction of the sumptuous fabrics, furs and jewels is most important, making this piece one of the most extraordinary examples of 16th-century portrait painting.",
    "748": "St Nicholas of Bari is shown kneeling in the foreground of The Coronation of the Virgin with his episcopal mitre and crook. St Nicholas's cope shows several scenes from the Passion, including the Betrayal, Mocking, and Flagellation. To his left are St Anthony and St Francis of Assisi.",
    "12618": "The sitter is dressed extravagantly as is appropriate for a woman of Anna's social standing and wealth.",
    "26489": "These demonic creatures can appear either mischievous or sorrowful.",
    "6576": "The detail shows the upper part of the lower layer of the Allegory of April. The scene represents the Palio (race) of Ferrara.",
    "10752": "The cycle, seen in the twelve lunettes on the walls, was intended to show the sacrifices offered by characters of the Old Testament, one on each wall. The cycle ends with the representation on the vault of three episodes from the New Testament, connecting the theme of the transition from the Old to the New Testament. This picture shows one of the sacrificing figures, Isaac.",
    "22130": "The detail shows grooms and horses from the train of the Queen of Sheba.",
    "25233": "Although her glowingly full-bodied presence is in chains, she conveys a vibrant sense of potential motion.",
    "32425": "This is Francis the ascetic, dressed in a brown habit, without signs of office or adornment. This is the humble Francis dressed in the colours of the earth. This is Francis the ecstatic monk, who has received the stigmata of the five wounds. His young face is raised heavenwards in contemplation, one hand placed upon his heart, the other on the skull, the sign of meditation. He is shown as a holy man of spiritual profundity and scholarly intellect, as reflected in his facial traits.",
    "9322": "Jan van Eyck shows an impassive Madonna seated between the two earthly powers, the priest and the warrior, the man mitred with gold and the man of iron.",
    "21132": "The painting depicts a river landscape with moored sailing boats and a village behind, a still-life of cabbages, carrots, hares and a black hen in the foreground.",
    "9054": "This painting showing five stylish young people socializing on a garden terrace, is typical of Van den Eeckhout in the early 1650s.",
    "17235": "The idyllic group comprises the Virgin and the Christ child, Joseph (at the left), the child John the Baptist, his mother Elizabeth (the Virgin's elder sister) and his father Zacharias (at the right).",
    "13769": "The Isenheim Altar is a complicated structure with four layers of painted surfaces - that is, two sets of folding wings, like a double cupboard, enclosing the final altarpiece, which consists of three carved wood statues of saints. There are also two side panels and a predella. There are three views of the altarpiece. The third view with wings opened discloses the innermost shrine, carved by Nikolaus Haguenauer. The two panels flanking it depicts Sts Paul and Anthony in the Desert and a Temptation of St Anthony.",
    "19194": "In the left background they reach the gates of Basel. The scene in the foreground shows them embarking on the boats. To reach the second vessel, they have to clamber across the first. Several maidens are being rowed away in a small boat on the left. They remain behind to proclaim their faith.",
    "21423": "In that city was the chariot of Gordius, the father of the legendary King Midas. To suggest Asia Minor and the ancient past, Pannini introduced a bystander wearing a turban and placed the scene in front of an altar dedicated to Zeus, ruler of the Greek gods, enthroned with his thunderbolt.",
    "3191": "Above all it is the women's domed stomachs that demonstrate the contemporary ideal of beauty. Venus is standing in the centre of the picture, set slightly back from the other figures. Above her, Cupid is aiming one of his arrows of love at the Three Graces, who are elegantly dancing a roundel. The garden of the goddess of love is guarded by Mercury on the left. Mercury, who is lightly clad in a red cloak covered with flames, is wearing a helmet and carrying a sword, clearly characterizing him as the guardian of the garden. The messenger of the gods is also identified by means of his winged shoes and the caduceus staff which he used to drive two snakes apart and make peace; Botticelli has depicted the snakes as winged dragons. From the right, Zephyr, the god of the winds, is forcefully pushing his way in, in pursuit of the nymph Chloris. Next to her walks Flora, the goddess of spring, who is scattering flowers. For the month of May, Flora tells how she was once the nymph Chloris, and breathes out flowers as she does so. Aroused to a fiery passion by her beauty, Zephyr, the god of the wind, follows her and forcefully takes her as his wife. Regretting his violence, he transforms her into Flora, his gift gives her a beautiful garden in which eternal spring reigns. Botticelli is depicting two separate moments in Ovid's narrative, the erotic pursuit of Chloris by Zephyr and her subsequent transformation into Flora. This is why the clothes of the two women, who also do not appear to notice each other, are being blown in different directions. Flora is standing next to Venus and scattering roses, the flowers of the goddess of love.",
    "17236": "The saints at the left side are Dominic, Magdalene, Thomas Aquinas; at the right Clare, Peter the Martyr, Esperance. The 15 tondos in the background represent scenes of the life of Christ, they are (from the bottom left) the Annunciation, Visitation, Nativity, Circumcision, Jesus among the Doctors, Agony in the Garden, Flagellation, Crowning with Thorns, Road to Calvary, Crucifixion, Resurrection, Ascension, Pentecost, Assumption, Coronation of the Virgin.",
    "7391": "He bathed his very Dutch landscapes in a golden Italian sunlight which sparkles on the water and warms the stones of the buildings. The outline of the city is dominated by the profiles of the Groothooftspoort on the left and the squat tower of the Grote Kerk, a familiar landmark in Cuyp's many views of his home town, to the right.",
    "6665": "This painting shows a view of the Three-Fountain Grove with the château in the Distance.",
    "5498": "It is a simple, unembellished portrayal of a young country woman against a plain background.",
    "3259": "In front of an astonished crowd, St Zenobius raises a young man already lying on his bier from the dead. He also saves a man who fell from his horse while transporting the relics of saints. The scene in the interior shows St Zenobius healing his sick deacon. The latter gets up immediately in order to use the water St Zenobius has blessed to bring a dead relative back to life.",
    "3561": "They cunningly laid a heap of gifts before the girls - jewellery, clothes and other finery, but among them a sword, spear and shield. In the painting, Odysseus stands in the archway on the left. He has a band slung over his shoulders to support the basket containing Achilles's helmet. Achilles, disguised as a woman, stands on the right, behind a large, decorated chest draped with a costly Oriental carpet. He clasps the hilt of the sword in his right hand and rest the tip of the blade on his left hand. The other characters look on in astonishment. The elegant woman in the foreground offers him a string of pearls from the finely decorated jewellery box in an attempt to cover up his error. The austere composition, with prominent architecture and figures like statues, give the picture the appearance of a classical theatre performance.",
    "19470": "The eighth scene in the chronological order of the narrative, The Deluge, is depicted in the large field of the vault of the second bay, between the triangular spandrels. In fact, in the foreground of the fresco, the latter seek to flee from the threat of the rising waters by crowding onto the rocky islet on the right or by wearily climbing up to the high ground on the left. In the distance, the wicked, having reached the platform surrounding the Ark, hurl themselves against the vessel from which they have been excluded. Lastly, those who have reached a boat that is about to capsize, between the Ark and the hill in the foreground, are also engaged in a fierce struggle. The large field, with the Deluge, is divided into several sections with some wonderful details, but these are not properly integrated. One has to compensate by looking at the groups of figures reminiscent of antiquity yet full of new experiments and of movement; of naked human beings toiling, carrying or being borne away and resigned to their inevitable fates.",
    "4203": "The Hall of the Firmament is a rectangular space distinguished by a soaring, barrel-vaulted ceiling, where a unified composition unfolds to spectacular effect. This detail of the ceiling shows the Ursa Major, head turned back, being tickled by the tail of the sinuous Serpent.",
    "26535": "Illusionistic Gothic niches in the entrance arch of the chapel contains paintings of saints, while in the jambs of the windows of the south wall half-length figures of saints are painted. The picture shows one of the eighteen half-figures.",
    "8076": "This oval panel depicts a lady and a child by a balustrade accompanied by a man playing a lute, with a parrot.",
    "20373": "Moroni has been unsparing in his depiction of the abbess: she is unadorned and wrinkled and has a small goitre.",
    "1264": "The scene is a wooded mountain-side  where the company of Muses are playing their instruments. Minerva is just arriving. Pegasus is seen in the background leaping from a high rock from which water gushes.",
    "18037": "The picture shows a nocturnal forest floor still-life with a thistle, butterflies, mushrooms and a frog. In the present work, he has focused meticulous attention on a thistle, a single pink flower, and a handful of forest dwellers, all of which glisten vividly against a darkened background.",
    "18282": "Full of their own life, on the other hand, are the still-life details - the lavishly illuminated codex through which the wife is leafing, the angled mirror, which reflects the outer world into the picture in masterly foreshortening, and the glass, accessories and coins gleaming on the table and on the shelves against the far wall.",
    "1643": "She is represented in royal costume, seated near a table with her gloves.",
    "1929": "The detail shows the landscape in the right part of the painting.",
    "17158": "While the infant St John hugging the lamb can be linked to Leonardo, the variegated flight of angels above the Virgin's head can be seen in relation to Correggio's parallel inventions. The represented saints in the Santo Spirito Altarpiece are Catherine of Alexandria, Augustine, Sebastian, Anthony the Abbot, and the Young John the Baptist.",
    "21379": "The cannons at Barbara's feet acknowledge the trade of the bombardieri (gunners), but also furnish a warning not to play with fire.",
    "31468": "In this landscape drovers with their animals are walking on a path along the Spaarne, the city of Haarlem can be seen in the distance.",
    "17203": "The angel in the upper left compartment of the polyptych is one of the most lyric creations of Lotto.",
    "22069": "This painting represents the portrait of a lady, three-quarter length, seated on a chair and holding a small prayerbook.",
    "7336": "Christ as the Man of Sorrows is depicted with the wounds of his Passion, resurrected and seated on his tomb.",
    "5421": "The represented saints are Sts Amelio, Lawrence, Albino, and Amico.",
    "22090": "With her billowing cloak, she is depicted in a very realistic attitude.",
    "17073": "The painted architecture of the frescoes extends over the entire narrative, stepping back along sharp diagonals, while the row of figures moves in a gradual diagonal back into space.",
    "403": "It represents the prophet Elijah as elderly man with receding hairline, creased brows, and long white beard.",
    "16511": "The detail shows the books in the lower centre of the scene.",
    "28156": "The panel depicts a barn interior with a maid opening mussels and a man with a stick standing, together with a still-life of vegetables and fruits in baskets, crabs and other fish, and pots and other stoneware on a table.",
    "10194": "This picture shows the interior of the Franciscan church of Santa Croce in Florence, with the high altar area in the centre, with a fresco cycle of 1385-87 by Agnolo Gaddi. To the left of the main Chancel Chapel, is the Tosinghi-Spinelli Chapel, while to the right the Bardi Chapel with Giotto's frescoes can be seen.",
    "30493": "This panel is a genre piece and shows a young student asleep at his desk, one hand tucked into his jacket. In front of him are his gloves, a notebook, a pen and inkhorn, and six books, five of them piled up in a towerlike arrangement, which becomes the focus of the composition.",
    "31239": "The central panel of the polyptych represents the Enthroned Madonna with Sleeping Child, while the lateral panels depict Sts Andrew and John the Baptist (left) as well as Sts Dominic and Peter (right).",
    "5456": "The knife offered to the priest is a clear reference to the circumcision, which confirms in blood the passage from the Old Covenant to the New, foreshadowing the moment of the Passion.",
    "27729": "In The Concert he brings to an existing format of half-length figures gathered together around a flickering candle, a striking fluency in modelling the soft edges of his forms and a remarkable subtlety of palette - which includes light blues, lemon, purple and cerise.",
    "19441": "The detail shows a soldier in the foreground.",
    "1309": "In the Three Peasant Women, the figures are rendered in a rather abstract but luminous outdoor setting with the intimate, dreamlike character of almost Symbolist qualities.",
    "25857": "It depicts the familiar subject of the enthroned Virgin with the Christ Child on her lap and surrounded by angels and saints. Two angels behind the throne hold a crown over the Virgin's head. The angel on the left of the throne, meanwhile, carries a dish filled with snow and the angel on the right makes a snowball. They show how, in the reign of Pope Liberius (352-66), the Virgin caused snow to fall miraculously in the heat of August on the Esquiline Hill in Rome.",
    "8989": "The first room has a light background with an extensive biblical cycle, including the story of Susanna and the Elders, in which Susanna was falsely accused by two elders of the community but finally, with the help of Daniel, was exonerated. On the entrance wall are  the three Jews in the fiery furnace in Babylon, on the arch dividing the room the Adoration of the Magi. A phoenix (signifying the resurrection) is prominent on the right-hand wall and recurs on the vault. In the inner room, against a Pompeian red, are scenes of Abraham, Noah, Daniel, and Lazarus. The most significant and effective scene is a banquet in the centre of the front arch.",
    "22191": "The trumpeter on the left is one of Piero's most famous figures.",
    "18394": "Although their glances do not meet, husband and wife turn towards each other. While the woman's face is smaller than the man's, and more brightly lit from the opposite direction to his, their features are aligned and the compositions appear subtly symmetrical.",
    "30083": "The picture shows a wall in the Room of Giovanni da San Giovanni in the Palazzo Pitti. The scene below the window represents Michelangelo Showing Lorenzo il Magnifico the Head of a Faun.",
    "12622": "The girl - whose identity has not yet been convincingly established - is represented with the \"sphaera armillaris\", an instrument showing the trajectory of the planets.",
    "30560": "The use of the inverted Galilean telescope becomes evident if one examines the perspective and the relative importance of the table at the right, covered with an Oriental rug, upon which stands a white pitcher on a silver plate. They contained wine, which was supposed to act as a love potion and help men seduce women.",
    "19571": "The Erythraea (Erithraea in Michelangelo's spelling), is richly dressed and pensively turns the pages of a book, while one of her genii lights a votive lamp. The strange headdress threaded with her abundant tresses lends the head with its heavy-lidded eyes a dream-like quality. Perhaps its only signs are the scared eyes of the ignudo to the left above her throne, who appears overcome by some frightful vision.",
    "21501": "The central panel represents the Virgin and Child, the left panel Sts Francis of Assisi and John the Baptist, the right panel Sts John the Evangelist and Anthony of Padua.",
    "5048": "Notice the typical wooden parasols placed so as to keep the sunlight off the worktop.",
    "23957": "She sits confidently in her chair in a way that is both relaxed and animated, and a quizzical smile plays over her features. The handkerchief she holds in her hand supplies a touch of informality, as does the parrot perched on a ring hanging from the ceiling.",
    "28284": "In the good and bad thieves to the left and right of Christ, who is already crucified, Tintoretto depicts different phases of the execution. He shows the body of Christ surrounded by a great aureole, so that it seems to have separated from the Cross, thus giving the impression that Tintoretto is bringing the Redeemer out of the area of the picture itself and into the viewer's space. Hovering over the boardroom gallery of the charitable Confraternity of St Roch, Christ speaks as the representative of suffering mankind: \"I thirst!\"",
    "14270": "The scenes on the wings depict stories from the life of the Virgin.",
    "30805": "Particularly memorable is the shrouded figure in the yellow robe, which is often identified as Mary Magdalene, but is more probably Synagoga, the personification of Judaism.",
    "32102": "He counted amongst his close friends a number of factory owners and scientists, the very people who were the driving force behind the changes that came with the dawn of the industrial age, which was to bring so much profit and wreak such disaster. The experiment carried out by the elderly, long-haired scholar thus becomes an exciting theatrical scene. The scientist is demonstrating the principle of the vacuum, Using a pump, he has emptied the glass sphere of air, creating a vacuum in which a bird seems to be struggling to gasp its last breath. Pained, the little girl turns her face away as though witnessing the martyrdom of a saint.",
    "31792": "The baptism of Christ, the most important action performed by John the Baptist, comes in the central panel between his naming (left) and his execution (right). Christ is thus at the exact center of the entire altarpiece. The archivolt reliefs narrate events connected with each of the main scenes below them, and the statues in the wall niches represent the Twelve Apostles. At the same time, the spiritual world becomes accessible to the secular world: scenes appear from everyday life and the view gives on to a vista that includes a landscape and a town in the distance. The main figures are on the same level as the portals, while in the Miraflores Altarpiece the space farther back is also opened up. The foreground and background areas are entirely separate in perspective too: as in the Miraflores Altarpiece, we have a full frontal view of the individual portals with the main figures at the front of them, so that the viewer might be standing directly in front of each panel. The backgrounds, on the other hand, are seen as if from a single viewpoint in front of the central panel, with the areas at the sides converging toward the middle and emphasizing the significance of the central event.",
    "15433": "A pregnant woman bows her head and closes her eyes as if praying for the safety of her child. Peeping out from behind her stomach is a death's head, a looming sign of the danger she faces. At her feet, three women with lowered heads raise their hands, presumably also in prayer - although their solemnity might also imply mourning as if they foresaw the child's fate.",
    "25184": "The Olympian eagle devouring the liver of Rubens' Prometheus Bound was painted by Frans Snyders.",
    "8888": "The green drapery held by the woman \"behaves\" in a remarkable wilful manner - as if the fabric, stirred by the wind, is wrenching itself free of its own volition.",
    "13563": "The painting shows a view of the church of San Giorgio Maggiore without the Campanile. This view is unusual for the church is normally shown from the other side, with the façade at the left of the composition.",
    "28871": "At the left end of the picture stands Lautrec's father, Count Alphonse, overseeing the grooming of a race-horse. Behind his outstretched left hand one recognises the caricatured silhouette of the painter, in the company of his tutor.",
    "18535": "This double-sided panel shows on one side St Lawrence before the Emperor and on the other Clothing the Naked.",
    "10061": "The View of a Harbour may have been inspired by the harbour at Greifswald. It is evening, and between the masts of the two large ships in the middle ground stands the crescent of the waxing moon. Beneath it lie thin zones of colour, ranging from light yellow, orange and flaming red to lilac and grey on the horizon; above it, diagonal ribbons of cloud structure the sky.",
    "4832": "It was customary to show Andrew crucified on a cross formed by two diagonals. The old man looks weary from his agony, and the sturdy executioner who tries to undo the thongs is twisted round in a vain attempt to release him. Below a small group are transfixed by Andrew's eloquence: an old woman with a goitre (Andrew cured throat infections), a knight in black shining armour (the sceptical Aegeas), a middle-aged man and, behind the knight, a young bravo.",
    "9781": "The façade of the Grotto features a wall of artificial rock set within a stone frame topped with a gable. In the centre of the wall, a small door with jambs and an cornice in white marble contrasts strikingly with the façade itself. The Grotto has a barrel vault and rock walls with a sponge-like texture embellished with architectural elements such as frames and niches. The back of the Grotto features sculptures of animals surrounded by artificial stalactites, preceded by an oval basin with volutes standing on sculpted lion paws.",
    "12647": "The painting shows an ambitious young man at the start of his career. He comes from the provinces, from humble circumstances, and is looking for commissions.",
    "1088": "St Peter's pose, as he protests that Christ should not lower himself to such a humble role, anticipates the violently active figures Bernini sculpted on some of his Roman fountain bases.",
    "16652": "Among the four Evangelists he painted in the vault, the longhaired Saint Luke seems like a youthful thinker with his head resting on his left hand and his elbow on his raised knee.",
    "32265": "The ceiling seems to be held up by gigantic caryatids that appear on the walls. Muses with poets appear in the spaces between the caryatids. The present detail of a wall depicts two Muses inspiring a poet between two monochrome caryatids.",
    "16821": "Sometimes he would ironically represent certain dandies, abbots and virgins.",
    "208": "In both scenes Allori placed the events in a large columned hall that opens up onto a landscape. The theme of the lunette is Hercules and Fortuna beneath the Tree of the Hesperides. The picture shows the long wall with Allori's The Banquet of Syphax and Franciabigio's The Return of Cicero to Rome, as well as the wall with Pontormo's lunette.",
    "28621": "Despite the religious subject matter, there is a strong erotic quality in this picture of Mary Magdalene, who has sunk down in a posture of pious penitence, tears in her eyes as she gazes up to heaven.",
    "53": "Billowing clouds of aromatic incense surround the Ark of the Covenant, which is being carried in a solemn procession into the city of Jerusalem. The high priest of the Temple leads the pageant with the tabernacle containing the sacred Tablets of the Law.",
    "9744": "He was told that, because he had killed a stag sacred to Diana, he must propitiate the goddess by sacrificing his daughter to her.",
    "9342": "In the background of these pictures the city of Frankfurt am Main is depicted with a bird's eye perspective.",
    "15830": "The painting in the cupola vault represents the Heaven of All Saints with Assumption. A mass of innumerable figures is grouped in two concentric circles around the bright lantern, where Christ reaches down toward the Virgin, who lifts her arm to him in turn, borne upward on a bank of clouds by countless angels.",
    "13526": "One of the pictures, bears the arms of Alviso IV Mocenigo.",
    "14898": "The formal eastern iconography of this subject, depicting the Madonna facing the viewer, holding a stiffly posed and fully clothed child, has been slightly modified by Jacobello. Here, the Madonna, seated on a grassy patch, is slightly turned towards the child with her head inclined to the right. The child, while still fully clothed, reaches out to his mother in a somewhat playful gesture.",
    "19207": "The triptych represents the Resurrection (centre), the Martyrdom of St Sebastian (left) and the Ascension (right).",
    "16417": "The painter here depicted three peasants recuperating and refreshing themselves by an inn. These figures sit, eating and drinking, around a low table covered with a white cloth, on which a bowl and a chunk of bread have been placed.",
    "9323": "In it Jan van Eyck shows an impassive Madonna seated between the two earthly powers, the priest and the warrior, the man mitred with gold and the man of iron.",
    "13240": "Seen beneath mountainous clouds the city stirred his imagination and in this painting, as in others, the representation includes an element of fantasy and is not strictly accurate. In the El Greco Museum there is a painting in which a young man is seen holding up a map of the city. The map partially corrects the view of the city in which, to improve the composition as the inscription tells us, El Greco gave the Hospital of Don Juan Tavera a central place in the picture; transferring it from its actual setting so that the façade could be shown without blocking out the other important buildings. In the upper part of the picture there is a scene in which the Virgin presents a vestment to St Ildefonso. The landscape is painted in brownish-green and blue tints, and the mythological and religious elements are minimal; with his pictures of Toledo El Greco created the Spanish landscape, a branch of art which was nevertheless neglected until the emergence of Velázquez. It is sometimes supposed that the young man is a portrait of El Greco's son, who was, however, at least thirty years old at that time.",
    "26462": "Victories before a temple approach athletes in front of a triumphal arch, these all'antica themes pertinent to the sitter's scholarly calling or pretensions. The action taking place in the background may be on his mind, as suggested by his downcast eyes. The hard-won balance between hat, head, V-shaped scarf, and the far-smaller figures is among the major triumphs of his great portrait.",
    "26554": "Some of the figures are praying devoutly, while others, such as the knight in the blue hat, express astonishment and even scepticism.",
    "4720": "The artist ingeniously uses the figure of an angel playing the violin with his back to the viewer to divide the composition into two parts. On the right, before an autumnal river-front scene, we can see the sleeping Mary with a dozing infant in her left; on the left, a seated Joseph holding the musical score for the angel. The natural surroundings reminds the viewer of the Giorgionesque landscapes of the Cinquecento masters of Northern Italian painting, and it is fully imbued with a degree of nostalgia. The statue-like figure of the angel, with a white robe draped around him, is like a charmingly shaped musical motif, and it provides the basic tone for the composition. The Angel is playing a motet in honour of the Madonna, Quam pulchra es..., composed by Noël Bauldeweyn to the words of the Song of Songs (7,7) with the dialogue between Groom and Bride.",
    "27874": "The detail shows the figure of Deception.",
    "18289": "Erasmus is shown, intently at work, translating the epistle of St Paul to the Romans.",
    "6448": "In a few instances he depicted a young girl seated in front of one of his own pictures, contemplative, or lost in reverie.",
    "25245": "Rubens, who painted numerous allegories of this sort, shows the victor as a hero in antique armour, bloody sword in hand, seated as if enthroned upon the vanquished figures of Rebellion, symbolised by the torch, and Discord, from whose curls a snake emerges. The goddess of victory crowns him with a wreath of oak leaves. On the right, above the bound figure of Barbarism, a tutelary spirit proffers a a bundle of crossbow bolts, a symbol of concord. On the altar burns the holy flame of the Fatherland, which must be defended. Behind it, red, white and red of the Habsburg flag gives the general, timeless allegory a more specific connection to the time of its composition.",
    "24545": "There is a constant figure of interior pictures: a old man smoking the pipe while he is meditating. He is present in this picture, too, he is sitting by the artist's father lost in thoughts. Spots and patches painted with wide brushstrokes can be seen in the figure of Uncle Piacsek and the lively yellow of the plain background. This is why an armchair  with blue striped cover  and a green cover are placed  on both sides by the yellow background. The wine-jug and the two glasses have the same function in composition.",
    "3688": "The picture shows a detail of the left wing of the Dijon Altarpiece. In the painting, the two women are depicted side by side. Mary wears a large blue cloak which she gathers round herself with one hand, while with her free hand she gestures towards Elizabeth. The older woman is dressed in red and green, her head veiled in a fine white material. Although the painter has followed the Scriptures by setting the scene in a mountainous landscape, according to the Gospel the two women meet inside Zacharias's house and not as here, outdoors, in the shadow of a steep rocky cliff.",
    "25373": "This energetic sketch shows Henry IV (1553-1610), king of France, entering Paris \"in the manner of the triumphs of the Romans,\" as described in Rubens's contract of 1622.",
    "10565": "The background of his portrait by Geldorp contains an historically important view of Hatfield House with sportsmen in the foreground.",
    "23644": "By filling the magical void in the prototype, Ramírez shows himself to have been the more prosaic master.",
    "11123": "Vulcan - the god of fire and metalworking - engages in discourse with his wife Venus as he and his workers create what will become arms that she will later give to her mortal son Aeneas. At Venus's side is Cupid, who clings to her for protection amidst the fire and cacophony of sound.",
    "14990": "On this panel the Mystic Marriage of St Catherine of Alexandria is depicted with St Louis of Toulouse and a Franciscan Nun Donor.",
    "30534": "The bread in the basket, and the rolls on the table, are speckled with shimmering points of light and are fascinating examples of Vermeer's wonderful pointillist technique.",
    "21484": "The picture is organized in terms of waves of different colours and patterns.",
    "25465": "The painting represents a still-life of grapes, plums, watermelons, peaches, lemons, a cardoon, an open pomegranate, together with a shell, a snail and other objects.",
    "25752": "So the pile of books before the canvas includes the name of Newton, which we shall encounter frequently in paintings of the period.",
    "9658": "The very Netherlandish-looking bouquet of flowers with tulips, carnations, roses and narcissi, is as superbly painted as the silver vase ornamented with golden mascarons in which it has been placed. The heavy pewter plates are juxtaposed with an elegant, fine-rimmed silver dish and a golden-lidded chalice bearing a fine statuette of Mars. The blade of the knife at the edge of the table, the dish of hazelnuts, the lid and edge of the brown earthenware jug - all are variations on the artist's theme. The display of foodstuffs seems less impressive at first glance, and arranged almost at random.",
    "26971": "Scene 12 on the east wall shows when St Benedict's prayer enabling the monks to lift the stone on which the devil is sitting. During the building of a monastery it happens that several monks are not able to lift a stone onto a wall because the devil is sitting on the stone. Benedict is called, and his prayer drives the devil away, so that the stone can be raised as though it had been of no weight at all.",
    "2913": "The dignified comportment of the Kings is set off by the impulsive gesture of the Christ Child, while the aged Joseph stands discreetly to one side, removing his hood as if abashed by the presence of the splendidly dressed strangers. From behind the shed two shepherds look on with shy curiosity. In the distance at the upper right can be seen a pasture filled with grazing cattle and the shimmering towers of a city.",
    "6722": "The Portrait of Baudelaire does not show the poet at his most brilliant. He is smoking a pipe and reading, while the pen lying on top of a book on his desk is too obvious an emblem of his profession.",
    "22627": "In this peaceful scene several fishing boats have been dragged ashore and a group of fisher folk has gathered around them, busy unloading and packing he night's catch. The full moon, visible through a break in the clouds, casts a pale, eerie light across the entire scene.",
    "5614": "In the present still-life Cézanne shows the same object from two different viewpoints: the ginger jar is tilted forward so that we can see in through the top, but the sides of the jar are depicted frontally.",
    "200": "This panel represents the Crucifixion, with the Madonna and Sts John the Evangelist and Mary Magdalene, a city and mountainous landscape beyond.",
    "26018": "In the centre was the Annunciation; on the left, St Jerome; and on the right, St Lawrence. Joseph leads the ass that the Virgin and Child ride as two handmaidens, one with a bundle on her head, follow. As in the Visitation panel of the predella, golden rays emanate from the maidens' heads. They are presumably the same attendants, but now they are barefoot and wear simple dress. As the group passes, a palm tree bows. The palm frames the grotto in the hill where Christ was born. It is early morning and the sun has just risen, chasing light and clouds over the hills and faraway city.",
    "14923": "This painting shows a pantry with pig's head and trotter, calf's head, turkey, poultry and other food. Almost in the centre of the painting, under the two birds hanging from a hook, it is possible to see a large key with a label, clearly marked with the date \"1621\" and, albeit less easy to read, an incomplete inscription that has been painstakingly deciphered as the name of the artist, Jacopo da Empoli. This still-life shows a simple table, partly covered by a tablecloth, laid out at an angle, spread with a large variety of food, including a pig's head, a calf's head, a large trotter, a chicken, some sausages, garlic, half a lemon, a round of cheese that has been cut, a pewter jug, a straw-clad flask and a knife balanced precariously on the table (an element also found in the other still-life painting by Jacopo); the wall is hung with various cooking utensils, some game and poultry with the innards on show, and also a joint of meat, hanging next to a large bunch of black grapes.",
    "4390": "It illustrates the martyrdom of St Euphemia, described in detail by Jacopo da Voragine in the Golden Legend. The episode takes place at the time of Diocletian and the early Christian martyrs.",
    "11899": "St Stephen Suckled by a Doe is the opening scene of an outstandingly fine predella, added to a dull altarpiece of The Madonna with Saints (Bernardino and Jerome among them) painted some fifty years earlier by Andrea Vanni. A paved foreground with a steep street behind provides the setting for one of the strangest and most beautiful images Giovanni ever painted. Although the doors of the two facing palaces are open, the street is uncannily deserted. Into this spellbound, silent city has strayed the delicate grey doe, giving her milk to the infant Stephen, already haloed in his swaddling bands. The patterned pavement splays outwards, as though radiating from the semi-heraldic beast herself.",
    "29362": "The silent devotion of the Virgin kneeling before a charmingly painted praying-desk of clumsy perspective is not disturbed by the appearance of the angel flown here on the fabulous cloud. The friendly faces of the two figures, their curly ringlets or long straight hair, with every single tress painted separately, are typical features of contemporary Bohemian art. The strange colours - the lilac shades of the building, the greenish blue tints of the robes and the cloud supporting the angel - transport the scene into an otherworldly atmosphere of ethereal purity, in harmony with the mentality of the age which regarded the reality of this world as hideous and unworthy of being painted.",
    "23550": "The Archangel Raphael is presenting the young Tobias to the Virgin enthroned in the centre. Tobias is holding a shining fish, with whose gall bladder he has, according to the story in the Old Testament, cured his father's blindness. St Jerome is on the right with a lion (his main attribute) and a magnificent book.",
    "11110": "This depiction of a peasant eating pasta captures a curious sub-genre of Neapolitan culture.",
    "8522": "The picture shows one of the 26 narrative scenes from the Stories of the Passion on the reverse side of the Maestà. It is situated in the bottom left corner of the main section. The scene depicts Christ riding on a donkey up to the city-gate of Jerusalem. Crowds of enthusiastic people are preparing a fitting welcome for him, as they lay down branches and clothes in his path. The scene is unusual because of the attention given to the landscape, which is rich in detail. The paved road, the city gate with battlements, the wall embrasures, the slender towers rising up above and the polygonal building of white marble reproduce a remarkably realistic layout, both urbanistically and architecturally. The small tree, withered and leafless, that shows behind Christ's halo, is the fig-tree that Christ found without fruit.",
    "13682": "The left wing represents the Angel Annunciate with Saints Francis, John the Baptist, Catherine of Alexandria and Mary Magdalene. The right wing represents the Virgin Annunciate with Saints Jerome, Augustine, Gregory and Anthony Abbot.",
    "17949": "This is the background to the Capriccio with Gothic Building and Obelisk, its perspective layout scenographically grandiose and its drawing delicate and colourful, its architecture and foreground groups brilliant and sharp, the landscape background diaphanously soft, almost transparent on the horizon of the lagoon beyond the ferry gondola.",
    "11964": "The giants are ill-proportioned but muscular, with grotesque, desperate faces, and they are depicted struggling amid or trying to escape the dramatic collapse of rocks and fictive architecture that Giulio Romano imagined.",
    "3175": "On the left-hand side of the fresco the rebels are swallowed up by the earth, which is breaking open under them. The two innocent sons of Korah, the ringleader of the rebels, appear floating on a cloud, exempted from the divine punishment. They are standing in front of the facade of an Italian Renaissance palace, and in the background, as is frequently the case with Botticelli, a motif from paintings north of the Alps has been added: it is a church with a pointed tower.",
    "10976": "The decorative scheme of this low-vaulted chapel is traditional with the Vision of St Bernard at the altar end in the lunette, divided by a round window, facing another fresco of the Annunciation at the opposite end of the room (this picture), transversed by doors. It is richly gilded and replete with all'antica grotesque decorations in an elaborate organization predicated on a combination of real and fictive architecture.",
    "27959": "The two dramatically staged wall paintings on the west wall (The Meeting of Antony and Cleopatra) and the east wall (The Banquet of Cleopatra) present two significant scenes from Plutarch's life of Mark Antony. The picture shows the east wall with The Banquet of Cleopatra.",
    "7255": "The painting shows Achilles as an infant being handed over by his mother into the arms of Chiron.",
    "22118": "Adam dispatches his son Seth to the gates of paradise. There he is to ask for the oil of mercy, with which to salve his fathers's body and make him well. Instead of the oil, the archangel Michael gives Seth the seeds of the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge, with the prophecy that Adam will only recover once the tree grown from these seeds bears fruit. From this seeds would grow the tree that was to provide the wood for building the CrossThis scene is included in the middle distance of the larger one, where we see the tiny figures of Seth and the archangel.",
    "25221": "The detail shows Pegasus, the winged horse, the mount of Perseus when he rescued Andromeda.",
    "19819": "In van der Mijn's three-quarter-length, Ploss is seen with his chalk holder in one hand and a sketch in the other, seated informally.",
    "12389": "The face of the crucified Christ in the lap of a grieving Mary quite unambiguously has van Gogh's own features.",
    "10849": "Four female prophets are depicted in the vaulting of the chapel. They are enthroned on clouds in front of a sky-blue background and are holding out their prophecies on banderoles. They are wearing marvelously coloured garments and dresses with high waistlines. The ribs of the Gothic vault are magnificently decorated with painted garlands of fruit symbolizing the wealth, prosperity and fertility of both the donor family and the city of Florence. The picture shows Agrippina.",
    "17230": "Gabriel runs in from the door bearing a huge lily and drops suddenly to one knee.",
    "27000": "He is still describing this world, but with the objectivity and distance of the observer. Spitzweg shows the poet writing in bed to keep warm, for there is snow outside on the roofs and he has no wood to heat the stove. But he seems unconcerned at his scant means and the leaking roof, and his pen in his mouth, he counts off the meter of his rhyme on his fingers.",
    "7787": "The view is from the orchestra pit, with the necks of the double basses intruding into the dancers' zone. The central dancer is in fifth position, en pointe, but the random placement of the corps de ballet, with the dancers' free-flowing hair, suggests a rehearsal rather than a performance. The picture is signed, lower left, in white pastel: \"Degas\".",
    "26494": "The focus of the decoration is an ornamental frieze running around the front of the gallery. Young, naked, androgynous-looking boys were shown carrying a garland displaying thorns as well as roses, an interpretation of life's many-faceted journey and how to relate to the questions of eternity and death. The serpent in Paradise with an apple in its mouth adorns the central dome of the vaulted ceiling, while a pattern of white wings provides the decorative feature of the vaults themselves.",
    "3085": "This painting represents an Italianate rocky landscape by the sea with a fortification, a stone bridge and a ruined wall, figures travelling on donkeyback and on foot in the foreground.",
    "2021": "This topographically correct view (and its companion piece Liechtenstein Garden Palace in Vienna Seen from its Belvedere) shows also Prince Joseph Wenzel standing in front of his suburban palace.",
    "5067": "The altarpiece tells the story of the Roman soldiers who converted to Christianity and were then sent to die by their own emperor, in league with the rulers of the east.",
    "4552": "The Piazza is here shown as a lively centre of commerce; stallholders cluster round the flag staffs and are protected from the sun by large colourful parasols. From left to right an impressive view of the San Marco, the Doge's Palace and a view of the Bacino, forms a backdrop to their activity. From this vantage point the artist shows a clear view of horses of San Marco which are set above the main door of the church; they were later to become the subject of one of Canaletto's most inventive capricci (The Horses of San Marco in the Piazzetta, Royal Collection, Windsor).",
    "7983": "The verdant setting is the Forest of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, near Paris, whose tree-lined glades and dainty wildflowers captivated Denis.",
    "28830": "The child in the high chair is Toorop's daughter Charley; she would later become an artist herself.",
    "884": "One side of a panel painted on both sides. The other side represents the Madonna and Child with Saints.",
    "6360": "This early work by Corneille de Lyon represents the portrait of an unidentified gentleman, wearing a black coat and cap, with a green background.",
    "7237": "The picture shows the personification of Spring. Spring gazes down at the viewer seductively, with an impish, cryptic look.",
    "2983": "The large, firmly modelled figures are composed against the plain, grey-blue background with the utmost simplicity, the white-robed Christ surrounded by his four tormentors. One soldier holds a crown of thorns above his head, another tugs at his robe, and a third touches his hand with a mocking gesture.",
    "20953": "The female figure near the point where the path vanishes may seem to have been positioned by chance, but in fact she has her specific spatial and narrative part to play in the overall composition.",
    "5793": "The fly is a symbol of decay, a reminder of man's mortality, but it also greatly enhances the fiction of a real person gazing at us from behind a stone ledge in which Christus's signature appears as an incised inscription.",
    "506": "The figure is large and dominant, yet the proportions between the masses and the space are accurate. Even the extended spreading of the colours seems intended to lighten the weight of the figure, which due to the faint and uncertain light stands alone and isolated against the background surroundings. The two children wear the costume of the \"battuti\".",
    "16092": "The classically posed and idealized female nude is clearly inspired by Ingres's The Source in the Louvre.",
    "19746": "The Cloth Shop ostensibly represents a shop interior, a subject rarely seen in Dutch art. Amidst the dazzling array of fabric bolts a smirking officer gently strokes the chin of the slightly disheveled female clerk while he touches a cloth swatch on the table between them. Behind the couple, in the back of the shop, a craggy-faced old man dressed in a heavy clothing observes them with resentment.",
    "10881": "The picture shows a view toward the north of the Tornabuoni Chapel in Santa Maria Novella. On the right wall are scenes from the life of St John the Baptist; on the left wall, scenes from the life of the Virgin; in the lunette of the window wall the Coronation of the Virgin; below it, on the left, St Dominic burning heretical writings, and the Annunciation to the Virgin; on the right, the martyrdom of St Peter Martyr, and the young John the Baptist in the wilderness; in the vaulting the four evangelists.",
    "30544": "Like A Lady and Two Gentlemen, this seduction scene contains an open window which features the warning figure of Temperance.",
    "14523": "On the upper shelf of the 'étagère' lie various astronomical instruments. Behind Jean de Dinteville's arm is an astronomical globe, and beside it are numerous instruments with which the date and time can be determined: a cylindrical calendar, two quadrants (allowing the height of the sun and their angle to the horizon to be calculated), a ten-sided sun clock, and a torquetum, the most valuable and complex clock among the items displayed.",
    "2337": "The Roman senate honours the hero Camillus, who returned from exile and rescued Rome from the Gauls, with a triumphal parade through Rome.",
    "6463": "The picture shows a detail of the ceiling of the Camera di San Paolo. Correggio's decoration is related to the myth of Diana by alluding to the story of Actaeon with a putti who are displaying a stag's head.",
    "25822": "This painting depicts a twilight scene in the Luxembourg Garden with a fashionably dressed couple walking arm in arm.",
    "9580": "He represents the sensual and seductive heroine with half-closed eyes, lowered head, and the characteristic gesture of the hand on which she rests her head, with an intensely melancholic significance, equivalent to 'tristitia'.",
    "17712": "The picture shows the two scenes at the lower section of the right wall of the chapel in their present state. They depict the Martyrdom of St Christopher and the Removal of his Body.",
    "31729": "The Calvary sequence takes place in the interior of a light, spacious church, whose carefully executed details immediately catch the viewer's eye. The seven sacraments are presented around the central crucifixion group accompanied by an angel with a banderole. Van der Weyden portrays him on the left of the painting, as the bishop administering Confirmation.",
    "20474": "This night landscape represents the coastline at Åsgårdstrand, a small beach resort south of Oslo in Norway, where Edvard Munch spent his summers from the 1880s onward. The colour blue conveys the mysticism and melancholy of the landscape, which seems full of premonitions. An abstract mound at the right represents a clump of trees; a white fence runs diagonally in front. The vaguely defined shape on the fence may be a shadow of two lovers, a recurring theme in Munch's work. He used an undulating line to depict the shoreline that continues into the trees at the right. Stars reflect in the water, and a flash of light in the trees shines brightly. Some areas are thickly painted, while others are left bare to convey the lighter segments of the sky or a celestial phenomenon.",
    "19115": "The central panel depicts the Rest on the Flight into Egypt, while the left and right wings represent St John the Baptist and St Mary Magdalen, respectively.",
    "7427": "In the Oxford panel are the fragmentary figures of John the Baptist on the left, wearing a rich lilac cloak over his camel-hair tunic, and a deacon saint carrying a banner on the right, who is almost certainly identifiable as St Stephen.",
    "4329": "A map and musical instruments hang on the wall behind the figures, on the floor are weapons, a metal jug and a goblet, while a tiny monkey balances on the chair.",
    "29450": "The picture represents scene 2 of the left wing, the Visitation.",
    "12863": "Members of the Medici family are portrayed in the youngest king's retinue. For example, the man riding on a brown mule has been identified as Cosimo de' Medici (1389-1464). He is standing behind two youths, who, it is now believed, portray Lorenzo and Giuliano de' Medici.",
    "11170": "Through the open window the Riva degli Schiavoni and the Campanile (bell tower) of he St Mark's Basilica can be seen.",
    "6528": "The picture shows the centre of the ceiling in the Sala di Venere. It depicts The Youthful Hero Is Torn from the Arms of Venus by Apollo.",
    "7446": "In the centre the Coronation of the Virgin is depicted. The left wing shows the Nativity, while the right wing the Crucifixion.",
    "89": "On the left side, a man shows a woman his strings of onions. On the right, a man grasps a black rooster, a phallic allusion, in one hand, and an egg basket, a vaginal allusion, in the other.",
    "22611": "The half-length portrait shows the elderly donor holding his thumb in a devotional book, apparently ruminating on its meaning. He rests on a parapet in strong light against a dark background. On the left wing of the diptych Christ is depicted as the Man of Sorrows.",
    "1004": "The present winter landscape with resting lancers by a bridge depicts a group of Cossacks, with lances, at rest in a hard winter landscape.",
    "19641": "The two lunettes at the ends of the side walls near the altar contain only two figures: a man, to whom the name inscribed on the tablet refers, and a woman. The woman is depicted standing, with one foot resting on the stone seat, looking at herself in an oval mirror that she is holding in her hand, her elbow resting on the knee of her raised leg. Her back and head are bent forward, following the curve of the top edge of the lunette. She is wearing a green overdress, tied over the shoulders, and a rose blouse with rose-orange shadows. The complex style of her blond hair, knotted on the top of her head, from where a long ponytail hangs, emphasizes her clean-cut profile and the delicate passages of light and shade on her neck, on which a gold earring stands out. On the other side of the lunette, a youthful Nahshon, sits leaning back on the edge of the tablet, engrossed in reading the book open in front of him. His outstretched right leg rests on the wooden pedestal of the lectern holding the book, while the other one is bent, and his arms are folded. He is enveloped in an ample red mantle with gray-blue shadows and green lining and hood. The elegant nonchalance of the pose is well matched by the expression on his face - in shadow and framed by blond curls - which is that of a slightly sulky adolescent prince.",
    "28292": "The chamber, with its simple, lucid design (note the fine arched Renaissance windows), is dominated by the splendid ceiling of gilt woodwork, in which Tintoretto set his paintings of stories from the Old Testament, while the walls are lined with episodes from the Gospels.",
    "18777": "The rocks and skull of the foreground, however, specify the historic location of the Crucifixion: Calvary or Golgotha ('place of a skull' in the languages of the Gospels). Like a medieval schoolmaster, the artist sets out to teach us the steps to Christian spirituality. Huge beads of blood spring from the open wounds of Christ, and oversize tears glisten on the cheeks of the other figures. Their eyes are red-rimmed from weeping. Christ's arms are locked in rigor mortis and his body is turning grey with death. The figures are carefully differentiated: Nicodemus on the ladder lowers the body of Christ to Joseph of Arimathea, who has donated his own tomb for Christ's burial. Saint John supports the fainting Virgin. Mary Magdalene at the foot of the cross clutches her head, almost doubled up with grief. A young helper has hooked his leg around the cross piece, and the two other Maries stand in the back, the one praying, the other contemplating the crown of thorns as she comforts the Magdalen. Men and women, young and old, rich and poor, find their place before their crucified Saviour.",
    "19774": "Van Mieris depicts Mary Magdalene with her hair worn down, her soft locks flowing over her bare shoulder and her right breast tantalisingly revealed. The motif of one bare breast was particularly popular in art of the seventeenth-century.",
    "23347": "The altarpiece combines two scenes common in Quattrocento iconography: the Coronation (which occupies the upper part of the picture) and the Giving of the Girdle to St Thomas (in the lower part), an episode traditionally associated with the Assumption.",
    "911": "Portrayed next to Archduke Maximilian II is his wife Maria of Spain and three of their children. In front is the oldest daughter, Anna, the later wife of Philip II of Spain, behind are the sons Rudolf, later Emperor Rudolf II and in the cradle Archduke Ernst.",
    "10802": "St Jerome, wearing a torn penitential robe, is looking across at St Barbara. His wiry, semi-naked body seems to have been ravaged by the hardships of his hermit life. In his right hand he is holding a stone with which to beat himself. His stance is reminiscent of classical contrapposto, his right foot protruding out of the space of the niche across the painted cornice.",
    "9351": "This painting presents a view of Paestum from the west with the temples of Poseidon and Ceres.",
    "14275": "One of the panels of the Twelve Apostles Altar depicts the Circumcision.",
    "16939": "In the bottom scene of the second panel depicting stories of St Nicholas, he is elected his city's bishop.",
    "17246": "The Pietà is characterized by a mood of profound melancholy, expressed both by the anguished facial expression and by the encircling darkness.",
    "28132": "This scene is on the wall of the room with simulated Gothic architecture in the Foresteria of the Villa Valmarana. In this scene two noblewomen, wrapped in their warmest clothing, return home after a brief walk in the country accompanied by another woman who could perhaps be a maidservant.",
    "22630": "In the foreground various farm animals go about their business surrounded by a jumble of baskets and buckets, a barrel, a wheel, a harness, a broken pot, a shoe, and an old hat.",
    "150": "The ceiling painting represents Jupiter and Ganymede.",
    "20273": "Having abandoned the profane elegance of the preceding period, it strains for a programmed mortification of the senses. The corrupt and corruptible body is the principal subject, and tears and sorrow prevail. Impetuous rhythms explode in and around the metallic brown habit, the claw-like hands, the drawn mask of the face, the agitated sky and the highlights on the figure.",
    "21899": "It comes very near to Raphael.",
    "24973": "The light is not a normal illumination nor even a poetic evocation: the scene is lit as if by lightning, and in the blinding flash the figures are frozen in their attitudes and even in their thoughts, while the great limp body of the dead Christ, livid green with reddish hair and beard, dangles perilously as his dead weight almost slips from the grasp of the men straining on the ladders.",
    "20457": "The scene of Christ's prayer on the Mount of Olives is followed by Christ before Pilate. The Roman procurator has just pronounced the death sentence and is washing his hands as  a sign that he is innocent of the death of the Lord.",
    "19238": "On the gold background the figures of Angel Gabriel and the Virgin enhances Gothic line, without narrative details: just the central pot with lilies, symbolizing Mary's purity, and the olive branch.",
    "20491": "This picture appears to be a more complex and personalized version of Woman in Three Stages (1895), with an innocent woman in white on the left, a sensual woman dancing with the man, and an anguished woman in black on the right. All three resemble Tulla Larsen; the girls dancing in the background may also represent her. The man in the foreground appears to be Munch.",
    "27056": "The decorative system on the ceiling frames an arrangement of pictures. In the centre of the vault the scene of the Ascension of Christ is depicted. Four Old Testament scenes are in the pear-shaped cartouches around the central scene, between them the four evangelists are represented in a scale far larger than that of the figures in the paintings.",
    "15990": "Even the comparable Landscape with Peasants and a Chapel (Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford), the focus is on the figures in the foreground, who largely block the view into the distance. In the Landscape with Peasants, on the other hand, the crisply drawn and strongly individuated figures take second place to the compelling view of open fields and sky.",
    "22176": "The group on the left side is closed by the image of the peasant resting wearily on his spade, seen in left profile. He wears an intensely black woolen jacket, left open over an ample white blouse. His beret is white and stands out in contrast against the black hair and thick beard.",
    "16265": "It shows the extravagant yet isolated character of the court of Prussia's first king.",
    "13480": "This picture shows a detail of one of the landscapes in the Hall of the Caesars.",
    "6992": "His figures are elongated out of all proportion, seem boneless and are shown in affected, theatrical poses. The naked bodies, ivory-coloured against a dark background, emanate a totally cold, intellectual eroticism.",
    "10967": "In the harrowing scene of the Slaughter of the Innocents in the background, Berenson recognized the hand of Bartolomeo di Giovanni, the author of the stories from the predella, whom he poetically called \"Domenico's friend\". The town beyond this, in which we can see monuments such as the Colosseum, Trajan's Column, the Torre delle Milizie, and a pyramid, is meant to be reminiscent of Rome.",
    "24314": "The canvas is held in a carved Chippendale style giltwood frame.",
    "4370": "It depicts an intersection near the Saint-Lazare railway station with a wide-angle view. The man in the foreground, so close that he is about to step out of the canvas and has had to be cropped below the knee, has the look of a conqueror, the woman on his arm a companion with the air of an afterthought despite her prettiness.",
    "13538": "It represents the square with the decorations set up for the Ascension Day Fair.",
    "7544": "Mother could be interpreted as a metaphor of social injustice but also as embodiment of dignity of poor.",
    "976": "The painting represents an unidentified gentleman seated at a desk with books, papers and a sheet of music.",
    "1667": "The picture shows the octagon with Steadfastness of the Macedonian Boy. The female figures are Camilla and Hypsicratea.",
    "19971": "The familiar formula of placing browns in the foreground, greens in the middle and light blues in the background establishes the sense of aerial space; also the dark shapes of flying birds against the hazy blues and whites of the sky compound the effect. In the foreground comes the usual picturesque group of figures.",
    "19993": "This painting depicts travellers passing through a village in winter.",
    "31358": "Set in a panoramic landscape, the scene describes the crossing of a river. The Family is sitting in a boat steered by two boatmen, one perched on the bow and the other on the stern. The Virgin, Joseph, Christ and their donkey are all on board.",
    "21083": "This view of the Strozzi Chapel in the Santa Maria Novella in Florence shows the fresco cycle by Nardo di Cione of the Last Judgment (rear wall), the Paradise (left wall) and the Hell (right wall) executed in the 1350s. The figures in the stained glass window are the Madonna and Child, and the Dominican Saint Thomas Aquinas.",
    "18719": "Joseph of Arimathaea and Nicodemus show the body of Christ to the faithful. The donor is touching the Saviour's hand. On the left wing is St Andrew with some of the donor's nephews, on the right is St Thomas with more of them.",
    "8955": "Titian's Tribute Money also shows Christ being interrogated by two Pharisees in front of an open sky and a column.",
    "14230": "The drawing of the elegant married couple seated in a garden is faultless and the rendering of their costly garments, the very last word in haut couture among the elite circles, is rendered with technical perfection. The thorny rose Maria holds probably alludes to the pains and pleasures of love, the fountain in the garden to fecundity, and del Court's gentle support of his wife's wrist to the concord of their joined status.",
    "5259": "The stark contrasts of black and white, and the emphasis on lines give the painting a strongly graphic quality.",
    "1392": "The central panel displays an elegant representation of the Virgin at the moment of her coronation as queen of heaven. Above this arresting image is a smaller painting of the Virgin of the Assumption, a subject with strong political overtones for the Sienese and their subjects. The narrative follows a sequence that begins on the left-hand side of the predella, progresses from left to right across the predella and then proceeds from the lower left to lower right of the side panels, ending with the upper left and upper right side panels.",
    "17247": "A characteristic feature of the painting is the motif of the Virgin falling into a deathly swoon.",
    "31191": "The polyptych, which shows the Crucifixion in the centre, two registers of scenes from the Passion of Christ at the sides, and half-length portraits of saints and prophets in the cusps, comes from the convent of Corpus Christi.",
    "31566": "The painting depicts the moment when the two musicians \"tune on\" before a performance. The singer gives the initial tone, and the accompanist finds the matching chord.",
    "5633": "The female creatures frolicking on the riverbank are not graceful, rather they are sturdy, angular, oddly proportioned and plump, and have nothing erotic about them. The figures are also aligned in the same way as the trees; this is probably most apparent  in the female figure on the far left, whose upper body and left leg are inclined at exactly the same angle as the tree trunk. However, the contours and arms of the other figures also echo the geometry of the framework.",
    "12552": "This composition, showing a playful Christ Child, who lifts his mother's veil in a game of peekaboo, became very popular in many versions produced by other artists at the end of Gossart's life and thereafter. In addition to somewhat abraded flesh tones and faded pink touches in the Virgin's lip, the cloth on the table has significantly faded.",
    "16505": "The picture shows a view of the Carafa Chapel from the northwest. On the left wall the tomb monument to Pope Paul IV Carafa can be seen.",
    "13681": "The central panel of the triptych shows the Crucifixion, while the left wing represents a Bishop Saint and the Archangel Gabriel above, the right wing depicts a monastic saint, possibly Saint Augustine, and the Madonna Annunciate above.",
    "3779": "Later the two side panels were also replaced by the figures of an Annunciation. The picture shows the replica of the painting.",
    "24383": "In the background of the latter the valley of the River Piave is depicted. The picture itself portrays the sense of the place by the unbroken, atmospheric flow of light, which makes the chiaroscuro verticals of the group of trees even more striking.",
    "1489": "Resurrection of Christ stands in the second altarpiece on the left side.",
    "29758": "This detail shows a fortified city.",
    "10243": "The front wall with prophets was painted by Maso di Banco, the interior of the niche is attributed to Taddeo Gaddi.",
    "29107": "The upper scene depicts the Triumph of Jupiter as an allegory of July. Below, astrological symbols are represented.",
    "8780": "The altarpiece depicts the legend of the ten thousand Christians who were martyred on Mount Ararat, in a massacre perpetrated by the Persian King Saporat on the command of the Roman Emperors Hadrian and Antonius. Dürer's gruesome scene depicts scores of Christians meeting a violent death in a rocky landscape, providing a veritable compendium of tortures and killings. The oriental potentate in the blue cloak and turban who is directing the action in the lower right corner of the picture, would in Dürer's time have been perceived as a reference to the threat of Turkish invasion, because of the seizure of Constantinople in 1453. In the centre of the painting is the rather incongruous figure of the artist, holding a staff with the inscription: 'This work was done in the year 1508 by Albrecht Dürer, German.'",
    "27359": "The man portrayed here has yet to be identified and is distinguished solely by the large white octagonal cross on his robe, demonstrating that he is a member of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.",
    "9411": "The dark palette and partial lighting of the face and hands are typical of Venetian portraiture at that time.",
    "28542": "It was almost unheard of to move the Holy Virgin out of the centre of the picture, and to place the two administering saints - St Francis, who is recognizable by the Stigmata (the wounds of the Cross), and St Peter, who has deposited the key (emblem of his dignity) on the steps of the Virgin's throne - not symmetrically on each side, as Giovanni Bellini had done, but as active participants of a scene. The picture was intended as a token of thanksgiving for a victory over the Turks by the Venetian nobleman Jacopo Pesaro, and Titian portrayed him kneeling before the Virgin while an armoured standard-bearer drags a Turkish prisoner behind him. St Peter and the Virgin look down on him benignly while St Francis, on the other side, draws the attention of the Christ Child to the other members of the Pesaro family, who are kneeling in the corner of the picture. The whole scene seems to take place in an open courtyard, with two giant columns which rise into the clouds where two little angels are playfully engaged in raising the Cross.",
    "23593": "Raphael places these scenes in an illusionistic tapestry that appears to be hung between the garlands. On the right Raphael depicts the council of the gods in which Jupiter decides to accept Psyche and mercury gives her the drink of immortality. Then the wedding is celebrated in the painting on the left. The groupings of figures spread out before us like antique reliefs; the communal life of the gods is unfolded for us in a witty characterization of their all too human feelings.",
    "6604": "The upper scene depicts the Triumph of Venus as an allegory of April. Below, astrological symbols are represented.",
    "16604": "In the centre foreground of the altarpiece, a group of saints congregate. Among them is a saintly family, very prominently displays at the right, disposed outward toward the viewer.",
    "29830": "The lunette of the laast bay contains what may be the most charming picture of the cycle. Here we see an apothecary's shop, offering as was custumary, wax amulets, candles, sponges, and sweets, in addition to the expected oils, essences in their owm special jars, and dried herbs and spices.",
    "2614": "The expressive di sotto in sù perspective lends a sort of monumentality to the blond, music-making angels playing a variety of instruments - including a lute, tambourine, cymbals, rebec, reed pipe and harp - as they stand on a high, semicircular podium around the Virgin's throne; together with two additional angels in the foreground playing a portable organ and a zither, they give the painting its traditional name: the Madonna of the Orchestra. What is striking here with respect to the Pergolato Altarpiece is the new, systematic insistence on a marble revetment, although the effect is tempered by the meadow in the foreground emphasized by the two little angels who kneel to pick flowers.",
    "10631": "Artemisia Gentileschi wished to recount the story of this difficult path in her portrayal of a young woman with wild hair wrapped in a magnificent yellow silk gown holding a mirror, the symbol of vanity and inscribed with the words Optimam partem elegit (\"you have chosen the best part\", namely virtue) away from her. The beam of intense light illuminates the figure from the right, a demonstration of the technique Artemisia would have learned by studying Caravaggio's works in Rome, and conveys the sense of drama that envelopes the subject.",
    "14471": "The picture shows a detail of the Adoration of the Shepherds.",
    "3531": "The Magi, led by torch-bearing angels, have evidently just arrived at their destination, or are close enough to dismount.",
    "21754": "This painting depicts a still-life of an upturned vase of flowers, with a canvas painting showing St Joseph holding the Christ Child, and another showing St Nicholas of Bari.",
    "23096": "At the top level are scenes from the live of David while most others are from the live of Christ. The west wall shows the Last Judgment.",
    "6575": "The painting above the month of April depicts the triumphal entry of Venus. From it a detail is presented here which shows lovers kneeling and embracing each other while surrounded by other youths and maidens. The figures at the edge of the group hold decorative lutes, while the central figure, immediately above the couple, bears a pair of flauti dolci (soft recorders). Especially characteristic is the role of the two flauti dolci, which, partly because of their suggestive shape became the symbol of fertility.",
    "6340": "The middle ground is occupied by the figures of the Virgin and the archangel in dazzling brocades, the background by a suite of rooms gleaming with tiles, and the foreground by a series of eight figures, separated from the middle zone by the baroque tracery of a balustrade.",
    "27204": "The central panel (195 x 172 cm) represents the Crucifix with Mary and St John in a Gothic church decorated with scenes of the Passion. The left wing (195 x 72 cm) represents the Last Judgment, with the seven acts of mercy (six on the Gothic arch, the seventh in two parts at the upper left and right corners. The right wing (195 x 72 cm) represents the Expulsion from the Paradise with the Temptation in the background. On the Gothic arch scenes of the Genesis are depicted. At the upper left and right corners are depicted God and the Creation of Eve, respectively.",
    "130": "In this sporting conversation piece two gentlemen with their guns and dogs rest at the edge of a wood; a third approaches them whilst a fourth, gun in hand, walks into the wood. The figures are rather elongated in a slightly mannerist way and adopt curiously \"elegant\" poses.",
    "13044": "The painting has been cut and the group on the right is incomplete. The figure on the extreme left, looking out towards the spectator, is certainly the young El Greco.",
    "17181": "The various narrative scenes on the long entrance wall (the south wall), depicted on a large scale in the foreground and a small scale in the landscape beyond, represent episodes from the life of St Brigid, an Irish nun venerated for her charitable activity on behalf of the poor and sick and, most appropriate in the context of the rural community of Trescore, as a protector of crops and farm animals against natural disasters. Thus, in the central section next to and above the doorway, the saint in her distinctive yellow habit is presented four times: in the left foreground she gives food (raw meat, which miraculously has failed to mark her habit) and drink (water miraculously transformed into beer) to two peasant women; to the right, she heals a blind man; in the left background she saves a flock of sheep from a wild boar; and in the right background she halts the advance of a devastating storm.",
    "24887": "Rosa depicts him in the traditional pose of melancholy, amidst a setting of decay, destruction and desolation. Animal skulls and bones, symbols of the past greatness of antiquity (vase, altar and herm) and symbols of fallen power (the dead eagle) are featured in this wasteland overcast with heavy grey clouds. An owl high in the tree is his only living companion, both a sign of night and of wisdom. Instead, we see a forsaken thinker contemplating the things that have been the subject of his intellectual endeavours: death, the past, turbulent disquietude, fragmentation. The vanitas symbolism of the objects does not go unanswered: in the figure of the pensive philosopher lies the germ of a response, still caught in melancholy lethargy.",
    "20405": "In the icon Christ is depicted as Pantocrator (Ruler of All), portrayed frontally, seated on a throne, majestic like a Byzantine emperor. The dark-blue tunic decorated with fine gold strips (assist) over a dark-red undergarment; together with the background, which is covered in gold leaf, are to be understood as signs of Christ's divinity: his glory and immateriality symbolize divine transcendence. Christ holds an open book of gospels in which words from St John's gospel (14:6) can be seen, in Greek: \"I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life ...\"",
    "12899": "On the right edge of the picture the procession's vanguard is making an about-turn and with its heavily laden beasts of burden snaking up a slope towards the goal.",
    "2773": "The soft shape of the face, the rhythm of rounded lines forming a simple balanced composition, the man's thoughtful look seemingly detached from earthly realities - these elements speak of the influence of Giorgione, who ruled the minds of Venetian artists in the first half of the 16th century.",
    "6366": "The sitter of this portrait, depicted half length, wearing black with white sleeves and a black bonnet, is said to be Marie de Batarnay, the wife of René de Batarnay, Count of Bouchage.",
    "22934": "Midas is depicted penitently before Bacchus, a drunken Silenus sleeping nearby. Another version of the subject by Poussin (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York) depicts Midas washing in the river, while the river god reclines on his urn.",
    "27737": "There he finds his brother Jacob eating a stew. Through hunger and exhaustion he accepts Jacob's proposal that he should sell him his birthright in exchange for the lentil stew. The two brothers are placed in the foreground on either side of the plate of stew, while behind them are their parents, Sarah and Isaac.",
    "663": "In this fresco Christ stands on a rock, prefiguring his rising from the tomb. His arms are outstretched and in this He also foreshadows his own crucifixion. He is voluminously clad in a sculptural mass of glowing white robe, and encircling Him is a radiant white mandorla. At the base of the rock three of the Apostles crouch in awed positions, but they maintain the curious contemplative detachment from the drama of the scene which is the hallmark of this fresco cycle. At the edge of the fresco, on either side, stand the Virgin and St Dominic in positions indicative of prayer, stern and unresponsive to events around them. The heads of Moses and Elias appear beneath the arms of Christ; they are introduced as detached symbols to aid meditation.",
    "31174": "The altarpiece presents the triumph of St Ambrose, patron saint of Milan, carrying a scourge in his right hand and a staff in his left. The shields at his back support the sword and the cross. On his right stand St John the Baptist, St Sebastian and St Louis IX, and on his left St Gregory the Great, St Augustine and St Jerome. Behind the two groups of saints are two anonymous heads that may be the priors of the brotherhood. At the foot of the throne two angels are playing the lute and the mandola.",
    "8176": "In the painted niches at the attic level stand eight monumental figures wearing Byzantine vestments and identified by Greek inscriptions. They are bare-headed and wear halos. Closest to the chancel are Sts Basil, John Chrysostom, and Gregory of Nazianzus, venerated as hierarchs in Eastern Church. Secondary to them are the doctors of the church Cyril of Alexandria and John of Damascus, as well as the church fathers Athanasius the Great and Gregory of Nyssa. The eighth figure is St Nicolas of Myra. The picture shows the niche which is located above the scene of Meeting of St Nilus with Emperor Otto III.",
    "12150": "The right wing of the Portinari Triptych shows Tommaso Portinari's wife, Maria Baroncelli, with her elder daughter Margherita, accompanied by Mary Magdalene and St Margaret. The beast between them is a dragon, the attribute of St Margaret referring to the legend of St Margaret. Since she was carrying a small crucifix she was able to cut a hole in the monster's belly and escaped.",
    "1503": "Instead of the elegant grouping of figures in Leonardo's painting, which inspired it, this dramatic scene features barefoot fishermen at the crucial moment when Christ asks who will betray him, and the light passing through a glass of wine stains the clean tablecloth red.",
    "3342": "These extravagant and wonderful pictures show Apollo as God of the Sun leaving Tethys with her Nereids and Tritons in the river Ocean as he drives up the morning sun in his chariot drawn by four white horses, and then returning to her at nightfall.",
    "1647": "The subject of the ceiling painting in the Galleria is the legend of Aeneas, the mortal son of Venus who escaped from the burning Troy with his father and his son, and after many trials and misadventures landed at last at the mouth of the Tiber. The scenes in the large picture panels documents the most important stations on Aeneas's adventurous path. The picture shows one of the panels with Aeneas and Dido.",
    "22953": "The colours are conspicuously light, with pink and pale blue predominating.",
    "13182": "El Greco suggests the cardinal's personality through the emphasis on his prominent glasses, the compulsive gesture of his left hand, the animated, nervous brushwork, and the singular colour range.",
    "13293": "The scene is set in a rocky landscape, where the central figure, an elderly Capuchin friar, sits distributing rosaries to large group of girls and young women. The girls are bringing food to the hermit and, in return, he is giving them rosaries and votary medals, which he takes from a box held by a handsome young friar. The girls are dressed in ordinary gowns, apart from the two closest to the hermit who are all in white; they are receiving rosaries from him in preparation for their confirmation. The theme is one of charity, generosity and virtue: the young women are taking physical care of the hermit and he, in return, is giving them spiritual rewards.",
    "29877": "According to the Latin inscription at the bottom, the donor, shown kneeling and in profile, is Hendrik van Rijn. He is significantly smaller than the saints who surround him: Christ on the cross, Mary and John. The relief decoration in the background is particularly interesting, consisting as it does of gilded tiles with a lion motif, and refers to the reality of heaven.",
    "376": "In the upper left part of the fresco, St Peter is seen showing men and women the way to the gate of the heaven. Peter, at the opening of the gate, grants entry to a throng of elect who are being crowned with wreaths by angels.",
    "355": "The painting depicts an English 3rd-rate ship of the line (74 guns) in three positions off Table Mountain, Cape Town, South Africa, flying the Royal Nay ensign.",
    "5462": "The gentleman - his left hand on the pommel of his sword and the other, fist closed, on his hip - is shown standing within an undefined space, although the ample red drape and heavy tassel on the left suggest this is his residence.",
    "30517": "The painter shows us in the left part of the composition a table covered with a glowing Oriental rug pulled up in front. On it is a Delftware plate with fruit, a white pitcher, and an overturned glass or roemer in the foreground.",
    "17763": "In the Ascension panel, above the saints, who gaze upwards, Christ floats somewhat stiffly, surrounded by a mandorla of angels. Immediately below Him stands Mary, occupying a special place in the lower section, the only figure facing forwards and slightly raised on a ledge of rock.",
    "19222": "The Virgin is in a loggia contained at the back by two small columns in reddish-brown marble and offering a view onto a wooded landscape. In front, on a parapet cut across by the edge of the painting, the Infant Christ sits on a cloth. He is restrained by the Virgin's left hand and from her right hand he is about to receive an apple, while with his own right hand he playfully reaches for his toe.",
    "7616": "Behind the donor his patron saint, St John the Evangelist can be seen. On the right panel the first wife of the donor is depicted with her four daughters and St Elisabeth of Hungary.",
    "2287": "The allegoric painting represents a kitchen scene with Christ in the House of Martha and Mary in the background.",
    "16192": "Mary's gaze is melancholy. She has recognized that her son must suffer his future fate. Her body still seems to be showing the tension of the previous moment when she wanted to pull her child away from the lamb, the symbol of his future suffering. St Anne is watching the events benevolently. The colossal sense of depth created by the mountainous landscape gives the painting a perceptible peacefulness and greatness.",
    "24987": "Transferring to the Virgin, the iconography which from the 14th century in Italy was traditionally used to represent Mary Magdalene, Ross portrays the mother of Christ with her arms splayed and held up, as if she herself was reliving the moment of crucifixion; the expression of the crucified Jesus seems in fact to be impressed upon the face of Mary, who is now prostrate with grief. Behind her, the horrible animal-like figure directing his squint-eyed gaze away from the scene probably takes up the theme of the bodyguard, the symbol of the treachery and wickedness that determined the killing of Christ.",
    "28317": "This detail shows the face of an onlooker of the scene.",
    "24582": "An avenue lined with trees with their tops intertwined leads the spectator towards the bottom of the garden. In the centre, a young girl is playing on a swing, activated by two companions. A group of people to the right are looking on. The whole painting bathes in a soft harmony of browns, greys and greens against a bluish sky background. The red coat of the man leaning against the pedestal catches the viewer's eye. The antique statues - reposing satyr and faun playing a flute - flanking the tree-lined opening in the foreground had been earlier captured by Robert in a red chalk drawing of various Graeco-Roman sculptures conserved in the Capitol (Valence, Musée des Beaux Arts).",
    "24347": "The bluish cadaver of Christ, marked by blood that runs down his side, staining his loincloth and shroud, contrasts with the hieratic appearance of God the Father, who shows us his dead Son, accompanied by the dove of the Holy Ghost.",
    "29344": "The picture shows an old Russian example of a complete calendar in the form of a diptych. The saints and feasts of the latter are depicted in ten rows on each panel, in precise chronological order. A red dot (representing the moon) marks the start of each new month.",
    "9246": "The scene at top of the niche containing the figure of Adam depicts in grisaille the Offering of Abel and Cain. The scene prefigures both the sacrifice of Christ and the Eucharist.",
    "21246": "His palette has an abundance of greens - glistening olives, the pale green of sunlit leaves, the sea-green of moss, the dark green of the deep mysterious forest - these and many more variations of green foliage shimmer in the dancing shafts of sunlight.",
    "6307": "He is portrayed on his dark bay hunter \"Kitten\" in a rolling landscape.",
    "3150": "Botticelli enables the observer to look through a room structured according to the laws of perspective and across the red floor tiles, along its converging lines, out onto a landscape. The lively movement of the figures contrasts with these spatial dynamics, which lead towards the background. There is a diagonal line running from the edge of Gabriel's robes to his raised hand, and it continues in the arm which Mary is holding across her chest. The angel's robes, which are billowing in great folds, show that he has just made a sweeping landing. Gabriel is kneeling reverently in front of Mary and his mouth, which is slightly open, suggests that he is in the process of speaking the words of St. Luke's Gospel, which are written underneath him in Latin on the painting's original frame: \"The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee.\"",
    "18449": "The picture shows the central panel of a triptych.",
    "30389": "In this work a royal yacht bearing the arms of the House of Orange anchors in a port. It is surrounded by various large sailing vessels, upon which Dutch prosperity was founded, whilst on the shore various figures are bathing in the morning sun."
}