{
    "4040": "We do not know when and where this important painting was obtained, but Camillo Pamphilj was a great admirer of this dynasty of Flemish painters. A Creation of the World, evidently to be identified with the following picture, was already in his possession before 1654. In that year he acquired some other works from Mme. de Belleville in Paris: \"in view of the singular desire, that I had to accompany them with others in one of my cabinets owing to the esteem in which I hold that master of sign, from the imitation of whose style I cannot hold myself back...,\" wrote the prince to the Apostolic Delegate of Paris. Finally , in 1656 he got hold of another small picture: might this have been the Battle? After the death of Don Camillo, in 1666, the numerous paintings by the Brueghels that he had assembled as a result of this passion were hung in the second room adjoining the gallery of the palace in Piazza Navona. Among them was this painting, with a precious ebony frame. In 1669, another ten pictures, considered generically to be the work of \"Brugolo Vecchio,\" were acquired in Villa Ludovisi: two Landscapes (one on panel and the other on canvas), along with another four paintings on panel and the same number on copper. Today the collection contains fifteen paintings (ten in the Gallery and five in the Apartments) in memory of this passion for collecting, which was shared by the Borromeo and Colonna families as well. Pieter Bruegel the Elder, one of the greatest painters of all time, came to Italy in 1551 and 1553 in the company of the famous geographer Abraham Ortelius, visiting Messina, Naples, and Rome. It was undoubtedly in this period that the artist, probably at the request of his friend, made a number of drawings of topographical interest, which he took home with him. It is likely that among them was the drawing representing a Naval Battle in the Straits of Messina, which served as a model for an engraving by Frans Huys in 1561. Measuring 43,8 x 72 cm, its size is almost exactly the same as this painting, although the latter's unpainted edges have been cut off on all four sides. The veduta must date from around the same time, probably between 1560 and 1562 although a number of scholars believe it to have been painted around 1558. Unfortunately there is little evidence for a more precise date. It may be deduced that the painting was also based on a drawing of the same size and that the two compositions, stylistically similar, were intended as companion pieces, the first with the strait dominated by Etna and the second with the gulf overshadowed by Vesuvius. In any case both Battles are examples of artistic license, and not based on actual historical events, just as the semicircular form of the wharf in the View of Naples is a topographically inaccurate invention by the painter. The depictions of the two volcanoes, which lead one to meditate on the mysterious and universal force of nature, reflect the artist's Neoplatonic pantheism, based on the belief that the Divine animates the world from within. This is expressed in the encyclopedic and profound observation to be found in his pictures, in which human activity is in continuous, predestined movement. The painting is a sort of 'teatrum mundi,' that also embraces this image of Naples, seen from above and far way, in which the foaming crests of the waves, driven by the wind, advance vertically (!) toward the shore, in a brilliant and courageous use of perspective.",
    "25889": "Sauvage was a specialist in imitating antique bas-reliefs in grisaille paintings. Here, in a beige monochrome on a black marble background, nine putti take part in a bacchanalia, a celebration in honour of Bacchus.",
    "29477": "This composition, showing a playful Christ Child, who lifts his mother's veil in a game of peekaboo, was conceived by Jan Gossart. It became very popular in many versions produced by other artists at the end of Gossart's life and thereafter. This larger version in Brussels was not by Gossart's hand. Other variants differ in size, shape, background design - whether interior or landscape - and in the poses of the figures.",
    "27563": "Jacquemijna Le Pla (1647-1696) was the wife Justus Ghys (1638-1680), a Leiden merchant and distant cousin of van den Tempel. The lost pendant of the painting represented the husband. Abraham van den Tempel was renowned for his depiction of the sumptuous materials and objects worn by the elegant and privileged sitters he painted. In the present painting the sitter poses with a smooth-haired brown and white spaniel before an extensive garden, a statue behind her to the right and a classical balustrade in the distance. Her garments are luxurious.",
    "3117": "Somewhere around 1475, Botticelli painted the famous Adoration of the Magi for Guasparre di Zanobi del Lama, a work in which the artist also depicted himself. This painting established Botticelli's fame in Florence, and may rightfully be considered the high point of his early artistic output. Guasparre del Lama was a parvenu from the humblest background with a dubious past - he had been convicted of the embezzlement of public funds in 1447. He had been working since the 1450s as a broker and money-changer, something which brought him considerable wealth. In order that he might also obtain the high social standing which he lacked, he enrolled in the most prestigious brotherhoods and endowed a chapel in Santa Maria Novella, which he decorated with Botticelli's altar-piece. Del Lama's career did not last long, for he soon slipped back into his dishonest business practices. Del Lama may be seen among the crowd of people on the right-hand side of the picture, an elderly man with white hair and a light blue robe looking at the observer and pointing in the latter's direction with his right hand. The most famous members of the Medici family are portrayed together with del Lama; controversy rages as to their precise identification, although there is no doubt that the eldest king, kneeling before the Virgin and the Christ Child, is a representation of Cosimo the Elder, founder in the 1430s of what would be dynastic rule by the Medici family over Florence for many years to come. Other members: Cosimo's son Piero, called the Gouty, as the kneeling king with red mantle in the centre, Lorenzo the Magnificent as the young man at his right, in profile, with a black and red mantle. A comparison of Botticelli's painting with his earlier representations of the Adoration (both in the National Gallery, London)) reveals the extent to which the artist had further developed and compensated for his earlier weaknesses. The ground rises gently, so that the faces of almost everyone present can be seen, as can the great variety of postures and gestures that these figures embody. However, Botticelli has combined those involved in an ever more compelling fashion to create a dramatic unity, one concentrated wholly upon the main event. Furthermore, he has moved the central king slightly away from the main axis, enabling the observer's gaze to fall unimpeded upon the Virgin, who is now no longer in danger of becoming lost in the throng, as was still the case in the London portrayal.",
    "10961": "This tondo was attributed to Domenico Ghirlandaio or his workshop, as some details in it are derived from his successful Adoration of the Shepherds in the Sassetti Chapel. The Madonna, for example, is a mirror image. The ox and ass, together with their marble crib, have been moved to the edge of the picture. Joseph and the Christ Child at the front edge of the picture are adapted to the shape of the frame. The child's unusual posture is reminiscent of classical depictions of river gods. It is likely that Ghirlandaio's workshop produced an entire series of such paintings, only a few of which have survived.",
    "13484": "The Ospedaletto is the smallest of the four large hospitals that were built by the venetian government in the sixteenth century to care for the poor and the ill, who converged on the city in great numbers, seeking shelter from famine, war, and recurring plague. It was originally a simple, temporary wooden structure, but over time it was transformed into a grand building with its own church designed by Palladio and completed by Longhena. The restoration, renovation and expansion of the hospital continued in the eighteenth century, and the last project was the creation of the Music Room in 1777 by Francesco Patron. The Music Room was built over the kitchens of the old hospital for music schools that entertained important guests. The Ospedaletto became famous for its choral group made up of the young orphan girls educated at the institute. The young girls sang in public concerts and in doing so hoped to win a rich husband. Jacopo Guarana was entrusted with the decoration of the Music Room. The elegant trompe-l'oeil architecture that serves as a setting for Guarana's scenes was created by Agostino Mengozzi Colonna, son of the renowned quadraturist Girolamo Mengozzi Colonna. The decoration of the space is divided into two parts, one dedicated to the world of allegories, the other to the real world. The ceiling contains a representation of the triumph of Music, while the back wall celebrates the true protagonists, the young women (or putte), who played music in the room every day.",
    "25528": "Despite the traditional title given in the nineteenth century, the subject of this painting is transport on a river, not on a bay. On the left bank of the river is a village and a Late Gothic church of a type common in Holland. On the right bank, a boat with lowered sails is moored by a farmhouse. The sailboat in the foreground, flying the Dutch flag, is a 'schouw', one of a few types of shallow-draft vessel that were used to ship goods and occasionally passengers between towns on the inland waterways. Comparable river views, filled almost entirely by sky and water, were painted by Jan van Goyen beginning in the late 1630s. He was probably influenced by Jan Porcellis, to whom he sold a house in 1629. This type of composition became especially common about 1650 in the work of Jan van Goyen, Salomon van Ruysdael, and their minor followers.",
    "11299": "This is the nineteenth of the twenty-eight scenes (twenty-five of which were painted by Giotto) of the Legend of Saint Francis. Giotto sets the event remote from the world, in the isolation of the mountains and unnoticed by the reading monk. Stigmatizarion is the high point in the life of the saint. It marks him our for all to see as an imitator of Christ. The Son of God appears to him, wrapped around by angels' wings. Fine golden rays lead from his wounds to St. Francis, and mark the latter out.",
    "21803": "This bird's view of the Arno is taken from a viewpoint near the left bank of the Arno looking upstream towards the Ponte Vecchio. To the right can be seen the Uffizi.",
    "9464": "The  first summer in Nagybánya resulted a large size composition of a biblical nature. The gloomy and splendid landscape inspired the painter to pass on a serious message. The three major elements of the composition  are a group of people in the foreground, light green leaves of the trees in the forest and monumental mountain chain the background. Critics concluded from the dominance of nature that in the case of this picture nature dominates man who is subordinated to it, although Ferenczy does not consider him insignificant. He emphasizes the group of people by applying various tools: they are placed in the foreground, formal connections are justified by content  and are the lightest strip as far as colour is concerned. Ferenczy was reported to have been preparing for this biblical topic very seriously. His family, friends and models accompanied him to the mountain he had selected and they  posed for his picture. The final version was predecessed by a lot of studies and sketches, as well as an oil sketch for the whole composition which was ready by 1896. The subject matter and the composition, however, still engaged him so he painted \"Sermon on the Hill\" in a second version where the figure of the man appearing in nature became even more accentuated. His figures were more condensed and became oversize. At the exhibition in 1903, the second version was presented which Ferenczy thought of as his final approach to the theme. The picture from 1897, however, survived in fragments. For reasons still unclear, its owner cut  it into pieces. Unfortunately, the  middle part was lost,  only its right and left sides have survived.",
    "30539": "Signature: Not signed. Provenance: The painting first appeared in the sale Jan van Loon, Delft, 1736. It was subsequently. bought by John Hope, Amsterdam, in 1774. His sons fled to England when the French invaded Holland in 1794, and the painting seems to have remained the property of the family until the whole collection was sold in 1898 to the art dealers P. and D. Colnaghi and A. Wertheimer. It was acquired by the museum in 1901. The leaden window to the left was entirely overpainted at the time of the purchase by the museum and replaced by a curtain and a view upon a landscape through an open window. When the painting became part of the museum's collections, it was cleaned and the overpaints removed, restoring the original composition. This was the time when genre painting flourished, and artists like Pieter de Hooch, Jan Steen, Frans van Mieris, and Gerard Ter Borch, to name only a few, placed their figures into a light-filled room or courtyard, showing them either socializing or preoccupied with domestic chores. Vermeer's works set the tone for representations of the upper bourgeoisie, a social level more refined than that depicted by his contemporaries. This type of setting required finer and smoother pictorial rendition than, for instance, the Milkmaid. Consequently, Vermeer adapted his brushwork to the new needs, and more than equaled a Frans van Mieris, for instance, in the delicacy and finesse of the execution. It is proposed by some critics that Vermeer was the originator of the genre. It was he who influenced Pieter de Hooch, not the other way around, as was previously assumed. His elegance, sophistication, and majestic stillness assert the primacy of his conceptions over the more pedestrian de Hooch, who attained brief artistic heights only under Vermeer's impetus during his Delft sojourn in the late 1650s. Like A Lady and Two Gentlemen, this seduction scene contains an open window which features the warning figure of Temperance.",
    "28446": "This fine example of Tintoretto's portraits is a fragment of a larger work which contains other portraits and dates from not long after the other portrayal of Jacopo Soranzo in the possession of the Castello Sforzesco in Milan. No longer governed by precepts of Renaissance portraiture this painting exemplifies, an immeddiacy of interpretation and a penetrating understanding of the psychology of the sitter. In the portrait of Soranzo the brush strokes build up the features of the face with extraordinary precision, subtle effects of light evoking the leanness of the flesh, the burning eyes, the hair and beard of the subject. A sudden light forces Soranzo out of the shadow and he appears to be engaged in an intense conversation with the observer, revealing to him his innermost human and spiritual emotions. The rapid expressionistic way in which the character is conveyed is very different from the idealized dignity which Titian confers upon his powerful contemporaries in his portraits of them. Soranzo was to die in the following year, but his shrewd, dignified old age is unclouded by dark forebodings.",
    "29833": "A tailor in a striped doublet is seated on the left-hand counter. To his right another man is cutting cloth with a huge pair of shears.",
    "15090": "The painting shows a view of the Tiber with the Castel Sant'Angelo and St Peter's Basilica. Joli painted the site on a number of occasions, introducing slight changes in the format, viewpoint and staffage of each representation. Several of the versions were based on drawings that the artist took with him around Europe. In each different version the artist varied the mood of the sky and the arrangement of the staffage, though the boatman ferrying two figures lower centre seems to be a constant.",
    "17449": "Magini was documented as a figure painter - of portraits in particular - but he also developed his own speciality, in the form of table settings with different, apparently unrelated, elements in juxtaposition, with a focus on light and visibility. The various objects and food items are displayed in two distinct sections, with the largest ones at the back, while smaller elements are positioned at the forefront, and are therefore more easily accessible to the eye. This arrangement stands out clearly from a dark brown wall, which sets off the pale brown tabletop, on which the light originating from the left of the painting is focused.",
    "25422": "Ruisdael introduces into landscape painting portrayal of the violent side of nature, in contrast to the calm which dominated the work of the previous generation. In a composition which is typical in its use of a low horizon, a boat among the shadows in the foreground heels over in the strong wind. In the background other similarly wind-tossed boats are barely sketched in. The real protagonist of the painting are not the sailing boats but the grandeur and force of nature: the wind and the stormy sea.",
    "20733": "The painting is displayed together with other portraits of the magistrates in the Sale della Magistrature of the Museo Correr. The Procurators can be recognised by the velvet stole covering their shoulders.",
    "939": "The painting is one of the series representing the Four Elements. From the series, Fire and Water are in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Earth is now in a Viennese private collection. Air has been lost and only exists in copies. The allegory of Fire combines objects that are more or less directly related to fire in a bizarre profile head. The cheek is formed by a large firestone, the neck and chin are formed by a burning candle and an oil lamp, the nose and ear are contoured by firesteels; a blond moustache is formed by a crossed bundle of wood shavings for kindling, the eye is an extinguished candle stub, the forehead area is a wound-up fuse, the hair of the head forms a crown of blazing logs. The breast is composed of fire weapons: mortar and canon barrels together with the respective gunpowder shovel and a pistol barrel. Prominently positioned in the picture is the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece, beneath which the imperial double-eagle can be seen: a clear reference to the Habsburg House and the beneficiary of the series, Emperor Maximilian II.",
    "14129": "In this diagonal arrangement the precious nautilus cup dominates the composition. De Heem rendered the mother-of-pearl gleam of the exotic nautilus shell with remarkable precision. A long, dried-out lemon peel has been laid over the shell, linking the nautilus cup with the silver beaker in front of it, in whose engraved silver surface the peel is reflected. This beaker, with its simple decoration, forms in its turn the background for another precious object: the glass-holder, in which a 'berkemeyer' (a glass with a thick, hollow stem and a wide, conical bowl) has been clamped. The splendour of this still-life lies not only in its perfect arrangement within the diagonal composition, but also in the painstakingly chosen gradations of colour which run along the same diagonal. The yellow of the lemon peel is followed by the softer yellow of the glass-holder and the orange of the peach; the red lobster closes off the composition.",
    "27391": "In this picture, Stuck brings together a faun, a hybrid of man and billy goat, and a creature from the sea. The forest spirit caringly carries the water maiden, equipped with flippers, through the knee-deep water. The water is the reason for the piggyback situation, and we see a high-spirited, vital game on the seashore, devised with human models. Like other successful pictorial inventions, Franz von Stuck took up the motif again much later in a bronze statuette.",
    "1240": "The picture shows the exterior view of the altarpiece. The wings represent Sts Catherine of Alexandria and Agnes.",
    "28141": "This scene is on the wall of the room with Rustic Scenes in the Foresteria of the Villa Valmarana. The prevailing style of the first half of the 18th century was set by the enormous success of often flamboyant Venetian painters: Sebastiano Ricci, Piazzetta, and above all, Giambattista Tiepolo. But there were other currents as well. The Lombard painters Ceruti and Ghislandi, the Genoese artist Magnasco, Crespi from Bologna and Traversi from Naples (in addition of course Giandomenico Tiepolo in Venice) all adopted different but equally lively approaches. These artists paid close attention to themes and people taken from everyday life, which later led to the strand of \"social\" painting of the second half of the nineteenth century. Giandomenico Tiepolo's frescoes in the guest house of Villa Valmarana represent examples of this approach.",
    "831": "The painting, known as the Banquet of Copper Coin, is the earliest example of a group portrait of guardsmen seated round a banquet table. It shows a rather primitive juxtaposition of single portraits. The stiff somewhat geometrical composition is characteristic of the early group pictures, and so is the bird's-eye view of the table. The arrangement is simple. Fifteen of the seventeen guardsmen have been lined up in two rows, with only a weak attempt to bind them together. Some of the men are looking towards the spectator, some of them elsewhere. This variety of movement slightly relieves the monotony of the setting, but it endangers the unity. The relief-like arrangement in planes parallel to the surface is characteristic of the Renaissance style. So is the accentuation of the straight horizontal and vertical directions, both giving a certain architectural firmness to the composition. After the middle of the sixteenth century painters of group portraits adopt a freer arrangement within a more natural space construction.",
    "3058": "This painting is the earliest extant flower painting by Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder and thus amongst the very earliest examples of independent flower painting in the Netherlands. It shows a still-life of flowers, including irises, narcissi, lily-of-the-valley and carnations, in a tall glass vase set on a stone ledge.",
    "15617": "This is one of a series of half-length female figures of the seven Liberal Arts which once belonged to Gédéon Tallemant (1613-1668), one of the counsellors of King Louis XIII, apparently painted for his house in the Rue d'Angoumois, Paris. The pictures vary in size, and all are dated 1649 or 1650. Although the Parisian painter La Hyre seems never to have travelled to Italy, he was well aware - through study at Fontainebleau and through the work of contemporary artists like Vouet, Poussin and Claude - of the achievements of the Italian Renaissance. He became a major exponent of a restrained and refined classical manner fashionable in the French capital. The sculptural clarity and weight of the figure in this allegorical painting, the measured regularity of the composition with its emphasis on horizontal and vertical lines, the even lighting and discrete local colour can all be contrasted with the sweeping movement, dramatic play of light, shade, textures and reflections in Baroque works by contemporaries like Rembrandt. This unlikely gardener represents Grammar. It is one of a series of personifications of the Seven Liberal Arts. The Liberal Arts were the literary trio, Grammar, Rhetoric and Dialectic, and the mathematical quartet of Arithmetic, Music, Geometry and Astronomy. It had long been traditional to decorate private studios and libraries with their images. They were always shown as women, in keeping with the feminine gender of the Latin nouns grammatica, rhetorica etc., which retain their femininity in all the Romance languages. The other paintings of these high-minded ladies by La Hyre survive, dispersed in various collections. We do not know precisely how they were arranged in the room, but the pictures, of different sizes, were probably set into carved panelling and hung above head height. The Latin legend on Grammar's winding ribbon can be translated as 'A learned and articulate voice spoken in a correct manner'. The function of Grammar among the Liberal Arts was not to parse sentences or teach conjugations but to ensure that ideas could be communicated clearly and effectively. In Cesare Ripa's illustrated dictionary of personifications of concepts, the Iconologia, first published in 1593, a book much used by painters, the author comments, 'Like young plants, young brains need watering and it is the duty of Grammar to undertake this.' La Hyre shows Grammar, with a homely jug, watering primulas and anemones in terracotta pots as lovingly studied from the object as any kitchenware by Chardin. The overflow runs off through the drainage hole onto a fragment of antique Roman wall or pillar ornamented with an egg-and-dart frieze. Behind her, grand fluted Roman columns and a Roman urn close off our view into the garden beyond the wall, but the mood is as friendly and serene as if she were nursing her plants on a balcony in a quiet Paris backwater away from the traffic, airing the ravishing harmonies of her shot-silk gown and mild blue cloak.",
    "28015": "The fourth compartment in the room of Homer shows Cupid, armed with quiver and arrows, hovering over a landscape typical of Veneto, a clear homage to Paolo Veronese's klandscapes in the Villa Barbaro in Maser.",
    "171": "The picture shows the central panel of the Polyptych of the Apocalypse. In the centre of the polyptych is God the Father in Glory with the Lamb, between the symbols of the four Evangelists. The ineffably expressive naturalness which makes the central panel of Alberegno's signed triptych so admirable appears again in the panels of the Polyptych with five episodes from the Apocalypse, originally placed in the church of St. John the Evangelist at Torcello. In the central panel for example, where St. John the Evangelist looks up from his writing to admire the Eternal in glory with the Lamb of God, surrounded by the symbols of the four Evangelists with wings covered with eyes, being worshipped by twenty-four venerable old men, here too the theme, though very complex, comes through with exemplary clarity because of the subtle expressiveness of the details which frees the sacred vision of every transcendent abstraction.",
    "31215": "The picture shows the central panel of the polyptych depicting the Virgin Enthroned with Child.",
    "32374": "This small painting, together with its pendant depicting the Silver Age, comes from Villa Medici in Rome, which was home to Ferdinando I during the period when he was cardinal. Based on the available documentary evidence, it appears very likely that both panels were destined to be used as portrait covers. Having studied under Vasari, Jacopo Zucchi became his master's main collaborator, participating in the decoration of the Salone del Cinquecento and the Studiolo of Francesco I in Palazzo Vecchio. In 1572 he settled in Rome, becoming the favourite artist of Ferdinando de' Medici, who appointed him to decorate his villa on the Pincian Hill. In this painting, Zucchi takes inspiration from the kind of composition typically used by Vasari, portraying small groups of figures dancing or embracing one another on the banks of a stream. However, as a whole, his subject displays a closer similarity to Ovid's Metamorphoses, a work of which the painter is likely to have had first-hand knowledge, being able to use it as an iconographic source. In terms of style, the painting presents the characteristics of the artist's works completed in the mid-seventies: figures with rhythmic gestures, a scene perceived from the bottom and the diagonal construction of the space, designed to increase the sense of depth.",
    "25648": "The picture shows four scenes from the upper register of the west wall: Annunciation to Zacharias; Zacharias Noting Down the Angel's Message; The Visitation; and The Meeting of Mary and Zacharias.",
    "21381": "The Sacra conversazione (holy conversation) involving the Madonna and Christ Child with saints (in this case St John the Baptist and St Catherine) was a genre in which Palma Vecchio excelled. These works were painted for wealthy patrons and were intended for private devotion in a domestic environment. The figures are normally shown half-length, the Madonna and Child painted on the same scale as the figures venerating them, and they all appear to co-exist in the same picture space, without the hierarchy so typical of Renaissance triptychs and polyptychs. Although Palma was a pioneer in the genre he often had recourse to Titian's works, as is the case here.",
    "1794": "In addition to the \"Madonna and Child\", another recurring theme in Bellini's work is the \"Pietà\". This subject too has the Byzantine origin of the imago pietatis iconographical models used in Venetian art. Venice, furthermore, was responsible for the introduction in the West of the so-called \"Passion Portraits\", whose function was to establish an empathetic dialogue between the dead Christ with the wounds of the martyr and the faithful contemplating Him. The faithful, besides being moved by the sacrifice of Christ, draws consolation for his own pain through the observation of divine suffering. In Bellini's work, for example, the Pietà of the Accademia Carrara in Bergamo and that of the Museo Poldi Pezzoli in Milan are the prototypes of a series of variants showing the body of the dead Christ over the sarcophagus, with his head bowed and his hands positioned as if for burial. This is an iconography that originated in Constantinople, even if in Italy it was thought to derive from a famous miraculous Roman mosaic-icon, the one of Santa Croce in Jerusalem, which according to legend had appeared during Mass to Pope Gregory the Great. The Bergamo painting is a harsh work, marked by a dramatic force which, in rather uncustomary fashion, the artist renders with the expressionistic masks of suffering of the Madonna and St John. The hands of the mother and son are clasped tightly together in a strong plastic join of Crivellesque inspiration, which in the past led scholars to suppose it was the work of a Ferrarese master. Nor should we underestimate the importance that the particular fascination of the Paduan altar of Donatello still held for Bellini at this time. The painting is signed at the bottom as \"IOHANNES B.\" The inscription at the top is illegible.",
    "24194": "Renoir is the only Impressionist painter to have made use of his talent primarily in the fields of figure and portrait painting. In his portraits of women he showed a marked preference for small-scale pictures, frequently characterized by their intimacy. The subject of the present painting is treated as a manifestation of light. The brightness of the light shining through the window behind the woman's head is reflected by the book so that it permeates her countenance, pervading it with vivid and delicate shades.",
    "2958": "The left wing of the triptych represents the Paradise. As in the Last Judgment, the left inner wing presents the Creation and Fall of Man (reversing, however, the sequence of episodes from foreground to background) and the expulsion of the Rebel Angels.",
    "3523": "Constructed on a series of triangular rhythms heightened by the violent tension of the drapery, which seems to absorb the figures, the composition has a rarefied atmosphere. Every gesture assumes an almost hieratic dignity, and every figure tends to take on an architectonic fixity. The figure of the Christ Child violently escapes from this formal severity. The audacious, almost explosive gesture of his arms seems to introduce the more serene and contemplative effect of the background, in which unreal, almost stage-set buildings stand out against the luminous sky. The buildings recall Bramantino's work as an architect and architectural theoretician. Of his work in this field, only the mausoleum for the Trivulzio family in Milan has survived.",
    "20251": "The fact that the sitter is facing left, and has a little dog - a symbol of marital faithfulness - on her lap suggests that this portrait is one of a pair; the unidentified pendant would have depicted her husband. Dressed in the Flemish fashion of the 1560s, she occupies almost all vibrantly-lit space. Posed at an angle, her face is turned towards the viewer, at whom she gazes. This kind of bourgeois portrait, made popular by Mor, was soon adopted by Antwerp painters, and was more fully developed in the seventeenth century, especially in Holland.",
    "18636": "This canvas depicting a nude young woman adorning herself before her mirror is a typical example of a group of paintings produced by the school of Fontainebleau, almost all anonymous, representing either Diana, or A Lady at Her Toilette and all featuring half-length figures. This pose, new to France at the time, inspired by the Mona Lisa and other Italian portraits, seems to have had particular appeal for French Renaissance painters.",
    "8576": "Madonna of Buonconvento and the Crevole Madonna are unanimously considered the earliest works attributable to Duccio. The basic approach of the two paintings is of evident Byzantine tradition: the elegant stylization of the hands, the typical downward curving nose, the red maphórion under Mary's veil, the dark drapery animated by shining gilded lines. New details appear, to a lesser extent in the Buonconvento Madonna and repeated with greater confidence in the Crevole painting, such as the subtle play of light on the Virgin's face, over her chin and cheeks, and a clear attempt at plasticism in the folds of the garment around the face.",
    "25961": "This genre scene depicts a man who has lit his pipe with a candle, in the background a man and a woman. The painting has a pendant, 'Every one his fancy', exhibited in the same museum.",
    "17169": "This signed and dated painting was commissioned by Niccolò Bonghi, patron of the house of the painter. He is depicted in devotion in the left background. The painting is stylistically analogous  to Lotto's St Catherine in Washington. Part of the painting which represented a cityscape was cut off by soldiers during the French occupation of Bergamo in 1527-28.",
    "16386": "This small panel, originally the door of a piece of furniture, or the back of a mirror, depicts the goddess Fortune, accompanied by all her attributes. The goddess is portrayed balancing on a globe, a symbol of the instability by which she is characterised. The red wings on her left foot indicate her fleetingness. On her right, a crown with a sceptre, an inkwell, two books and a ruler fall from above, all symbols of earthly powers and trades that are subject to the goddess's volubility. The coins sliding into the vase from a purse and coming out of it transformed into butterflies represent the transience of wealth. A winged figure, possibly a depiction of Time or Death, is offering Fortune a tray with an hourglass and some flowers, a reminder of the passing of time and the transitory nature of worldly goods. The fragile glass vase that the goddess is holding on the right-hand side could be a tribute to the interest that Francesco I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany, paid to this kind of object. In fact, glass fusing, an activity Francesco practised as a hobby, was linked to the studies of alchemy, a branch of philosophy for which the Grand Duke harboured a passionate enthusiasm. The detail of the butterflies, painted in a highly realistic way, reminds us that Ligozzi's speciality was creating illustrations of plants and animals. Indeed, he produced many of these for both the Grand Duke and for the Bolognese academic and naturalist, Ulisse Aldrovandi.",
    "24982": "The detail shows the kneeling figure of St Apollonia on the right side of the painting. As far as traditional representations of this theme are concerned, quite unusual is the presence among the onlookers in the foreground of St Apollonia who certainly could not have witnessed the event.",
    "23791": "Catalogue number: Bredius 563. The Holy Family and other representations of the childhood of Christ occur frequently in Rembrandt's art during the 1640s. Domestic happiness and intimacy are their dominate mood. This representation in the Louvre which shows the Virgin nursing the Child is considerably less overpowering in size than the pictures made during the 1630s under Rubens's influence.",
    "29691": "Sts Lawrence and Stephen were venerated throughout Rome and the popes accorded them particular honour. Their martyrdoms were frescoed in the private papal chapel known as the Sancta Sanctorum (Holy of Holies) in the Lateran Palace, the official residence of the popes through the end of the Great Schism. The chapel was commissioned by Pope Nicholas III (reigned 1276-80). It preserved the miraculous, painted portrait of Christ, believed to have been completed by angels, and some of the most treasured relics from the Holy Land, including a coal from the fire that roasted Lawrence and drops of Stephen's blood.",
    "29669": "The throne on which the Virgin sits, the drapery of her robe and her facial type are all specifically Florentine.",
    "4428": "This detail shows the artist's most admired features: vibrant colours, movement and pathos in the figures, sharp foreshortening, and the landscape upper right, which extends all the way to the horizon.",
    "8586": "The Madonna of the Franciscans shows structural articulation, and was probably part of a diptych or triptych intended for private worship, perhaps of a small group of Friars Minor. Iconographically it follows the \"Madonna of Mercy\" type: while looking towards the spectator the Virgin holds back the edge of her robe the better to receive and protect the three kneeling friars, for whom the Child's blessing is intended. This elaborate intermingling of echoes from Cimabue and Byzantine art, with the added softness of Duccio's personal touch, includes elements of the new artistic language from beyond the Alps. The tiny square panels of the backcloth, an innovation substituting the usual gold ground, are of clear French derivation. Thus, the measured breadth of contour, the sinuous curving of the robe's hem and the smooth masses of colour form part of a wider spatial dimension, where the Gothic predilection for linearity and flowing outlines reaches its maximum expression. The features of the supplicating friars and the throne, a simple wooden seat placed obliquely to create an effect of perspective, reflect the teaching of Cimabue. The unusual posture of the Child's legs belongs entirely to Duccio, however, who repeats the gestures of the early Madonna of Buonconvento and the Rucellai Madonna.",
    "10562": "The painter treats here a scene from the Book of Tobit, which is considered apocryphal by Protestant. While Rembrandt and other contemporary painters most often chose to represent the blindness of Tobit or his son Tobias guided by the archangel Raphael, De Gelder depicts the episode of the wedding of Sarah and Tobias. The scene shows the young couple in the house of Sarah's parents, WEdna and Raguel. It is interesting to note that Tobias looks too young to wed.",
    "9308": "\"The Arnolfini Marriage\" is a name that has been given to this untitled double portrait by Jan van Eyck, now in the National Gallery, London. It is one of the greatest celebrations of human mutuality. Like Rembrandt's \"Jewish Bride\", this painting reveals to us the inner meaning of a true marriage. Giovanni Arnolfini, a prosperous Italian banker who had settled in Bruges, and his wife Giovanna Cenami, stand side by side in the bridal chamber, facing towards the viewer. The husband is holding out his wife's hand. Despite the restricted space, the painter has contrived to surround them with a host of symbols. To the left, the oranges placed on the low table and the windowsill are a reminder of an original innocence, of an age before sin. Unless, that is, they are not in fact oranges but apples (it is difficult to be certain), in which case they would represent the temptation of knowledge and the Fall. Above the couple's heads, the candle that has been left burning in broad daylight on one of the branches of an ornate copper chandelier can be interpreted as the nuptial flame, or as the eye of God. The small dog in the foreground is an emblem of fidelity and love. Meanwhile, the marriage bed with its bright red curtains evokes the physical act of love which, according to Christian doctrine, is an essential part of the perfect union of man and wife. Although all these different elements are highly charged with meaning, they are of secondary importance compared to the mirror, the focal point of the whole composition. It has often been noted that two tiny figures can be seen reflected in it, their image captured as they cross the threshold of the room. They are the painter himself and a young man, doubtless arriving to act as witnesses to the marriage. The essential point, however, is the fact that the convex mirror is able to absorb and reflect in a single image both the floor and the ceiling of the room, as well as the sky and the garden outside, both of which are otherwise barely visible through the side window. The mirror thus acts as a sort of hole in the texture of space. It sucks the entire visual world into itself, transforming it into a representation. The cubic space in which the Arnolfinis stand is itself a prefiguration of the techniques of perspective which were still to come. Van Eyck practised perspective on a purely heuristic basis, unaware of the laws by which it was governed. In this picture, he uses the mirror precisely in order to explode the limits of the space to which his technique gives him access as soon as it threatens to limit him.",
    "27279": "Juriaen Streeck was the closest follower of Willem Kalf. In this small painting by the Amsterdam artist, against a dark background, illuminated by an invisible source, precious objects decoratively arranged form a still-life that is particularly effective in its subdued colour tones and juxtaposition of textures. In the choice of objects and of a dark background Streeck follows Willem Kalf, but this painting is an original masterpiece.",
    "14910": "The painting illustrates the Old Testament story of Elisha confronting his servant, Gehazi (2 Kings 5: 25-26). It depicts a standing boy on the left, his back turned towards the viewer and averting his eyes as a seated greybeard raises an admonishing forefinger to the right. Naaman was a commander of the army of Syria. He was a good commander but he suffered from leprosy. Naaman's wife had a servant girl from Israel who said that a prophet there would be able to heal him. Naaman tells his lord this and he is sent to Israel with a letter to the king. The king of Israel didn't know what to do, yet Elisha came to the king asking to see Naaman. Elisha advised Naaman to bathe seven times in the river Jordan. Although sceptical, Naaman was convinced to do as Elisha had counseled him, and he was cured. Out of gratitude he offered Elisha six talents of silver, but the prophet refused. His servant Gehazi, on the other hand, considered that Elisha may have insulted Naaman by his refusal, followed him and asked for two Talents and some clothes, which he was duly given, and hid in his house. When questioned by Elisha he denied everything, infuriating his master, who saw through his servant and struck him down with Naaman's disease.",
    "15624": "The painting depicts a theatrical scene from the tragedy Panthea by Tristan L'Hermite. This explains why the figures are dressed in superb plumed hats.",
    "11300": "This is the twentieth of the twenty-eight scenes (twenty-five of which were painted by Giotto) of the Legend of Saint Francis. When Francis felt close to death, he had himself brought to a small church. He died there in the presence of his Brothers. The death of the saint and his ascending soul are here linked to the requiem mass to create a solemn representation peopled with many figures. This fresco is followed by a further eight pictures \"peopled with many figures\", which are often dated several years later than the other scenes.",
    "25697": "Vasari points out that Salviati, in addition to his   work on the narrative frescoes, also executed some of the decorative details - the window framing between his two scenes, but also the illusionistic window to the right of the Birth of St John the Baptist scene. These window framings, with their nude youths atop festoons of fruit, are primarily decorative displays of artistic virtuosity; at the same time they contain elements - for example the tondo with the chiaroscuro depiction of Time revealing Truth - that can likewise easily be seen as referring to the theological content of the frescoes as well as to the work of the confraternity.",
    "1080": "This panel depicts a winter scene with a windmill and figures on a frozen river. Inspired by the paintings of his great predecessor, Pieter Breugel the Elder and his Flemish followers, Avercamp chose the winter landscape as his primary subject matter and turned it into a uniquely Dutch genre.",
    "15843": "Vivid, violent colours and excited gestures lend solemnity to the scene. The philosopher's heroic austerity is captured in his vigorous torso, standing out against the symbols of his moral asceticism> the barrel he has chosen to live in and the lamp he uses to seek out a virtuous man.",
    "17273": "The polyptych's central panel depicts the Madonna and Child with St Anne and is flanked by four wings showing Sts Catherine of Alexandria, John the Baptist, Anthony Abbot and Agnes. Originally, the pinnacle to the central Madonna and Child was a Blessing Christ, but it was detached by the middle of the 19th century and replaced with a representation of St Andrew from an unrelated altarpiece. The lateral saints, meanwhile, have retained their original pinnacles, each depicting one of the evangelists. The polyptych was executed for the church of Santa Mustiola alla Rosa, Siena.",
    "4218": "Elegantly dressed and decorously posed, the subject betrays a hint of social pride that tempers domestic moderation with the mindfulness of wealth.",
    "28351": "In this memorable landscape, the waves on the pond, whipped up by the breeze, sparkle; the walls of the isolated cottage shiver in golden glows; the profiles of the tree trunks and branches are lit up by bright threads of light; the crests of the hills and the outlines of the mountains loose their composure in a myriad of fragments of light.",
    "24669": "Far from hindering Rodin from creating a striking artistic image, imperfection and asymmetry here make up its very foundation. The sculpture represents the face of a tramp known as Bibi. The sculptor was struck by his appearance and invited him to work as a model. Later the hair redone in the manner of Greek philosophers, and the work was carved in marble and assumed the air of a Socrates with the impact of an antique bust. Its exhibition at the Salon of 1875 constituted Rodin's first real victory.",
    "11767": "These angels on the right-hand outer wing of the Baroncelli Polyptych are making music in a lively fashion. The strong, vivid range of colours is striking; together with the contrasting shade of gold it spreads rich colour tones throughout the whole altarpiece. Like the garments of the central figures, those of the angels also conform stylistically to courtly fashion. They here form a harmonic whole with the elegant sweeping gestures, especially that of the wind player dressed in blue.",
    "11409": "This detail shows the torturers of Christ in the Mocking of Christ scene.",
    "6272": "Constable did this painting on commission from his friend, the Bishop of Salisbury, who also stipulated the point of view and framing of the scene. The Anglican dignitary is depicted with his wife in the left foreground, out for a stroll and pointing to the cathedral.",
    "29235": "The predella, today in the Museo Arcivescovile in Florence, belonged to an altarpiece that has been lost (but was originally painted for the church of San Bartolomeo at Quarate). It is stylistically close to the Prato frescoes, and it consists of three scenes: St John on Patmos, the Adoration of the Magi and Saints John and Ansano. Although some scholars do not believe it is the work of Uccello, it can be placed chronologically in the group of paintings accepted as Uccello's work. As certain critics have pointed out, the Quarate predella shows the same interest in narrative, lively colours and description of details which is typical of Uccello's production in the years when he was working on the Prato frescoes (1435-40). A feeling of abstraction pervades these scenes, today no more than a group of fragments of faded and almost undecipherable images, in which we can make out a few architectural structures shown in accurate perspective and some monks laid out according to geometric patterns. In the extravagant choice of colours Uccello appears to have given his fantasy free rein; in fact, as Vasari noted, \"he did not pay much attention to the rule of consistency in colour, as was usual in the painting of stories; for he made the fields blue, the cities red, and the buildings the colour he felt like.\"",
    "13928": "Only the late Hals knew how to preserve the strict precision of a virtuoso painter without keeping his nervous irritation in check. The almost abstract chromatic perfection does not impede the impression of truthfulness: the white patch in the foreground, for which it is hard to find an explanation in the subject, emerges from the darkness of the cape with the same sharpness sensed in the model's arrogant gaze and grumpily crumpled chin.",
    "29815": "This panel depicts the sick coming to pray at an Italian shrine. In the foreground, a man lies on an improvised litter very like a coffin.",
    "31540": "Waterhouse's The Lady of Shalott depicts a scene from Alfred Lord Tennyson's 1832 poem of the same title, in which the poet describes the plight of a young woman isolated under an undisclosed curse in a tower near King Arthur's Camelot. It is typically Pre-Raphaelite in that it illustrates a vulnerable and doomed woman and is bathed in natural early-evening light. The lady is portrayed staring away from the crucifix, which sits beside three candles. During the late nineteenth century, candles were often used to symbolise life: in this image, two have blown out. According to legend, the Lady of Shalott was forbidden to look directly at reality or the outside world; instead she was doomed to view the world through a mirror, and weave what she saw into tapestry. One day the Lady saw Sir Lancelot passing on his way in the reflection of the mirror, and dared to look out at Camelot, bringing about a curse. The lady escaped by boat during an autumn storm. As she sailed towards Camelot and certain death, she sang a lament. Her frozen body was found shortly afterwards by the knights and ladies of Camelot, one of whom is Lancelot, who prayed to God to have mercy on her soul. The tapestry she wove during her imprisonment was found draped over the side of the boat. Waterhouse painted three different versions of this character, in 1888, 1894 and 1916. Tennyson's verse was popular with many of the Pre-Raphaelite poets and painters, and was illustrated by such artists as Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William Maw Egley, and William Holman Hunt.",
    "22125": "According to the legend, the tree grown from Adam's grave stood and prospered into the time of Solomon, who had it cut down so he could use it in building a house. As it happened, the wood was not suitable for this purpose, so his workers laid the hewn log across a stream to serve as a bridge. As the Queen of Sheba passed by on her visit to the wise Solomon, she came to the bridge and foresaw that one day the world's saviour would hang from this beam. She therefore refused to step on it, and instead knelt  before it in veneration. Behind the Queen of Sheba, kneeling in adoration, is her retinue of aristocratic ladies in waiting, with their high foreheads (according to the fashion of the time) emphasizing the round shape of their heads and the cylindrical form of the neck. Their velvet cloaks softly envelop their bodies, reaching all the way to the ground. The almost perfect regularity of the composition is underlined by the two trees in the background, whose leaves hover like umbrellas above the two groups of the women and of the grooms holding the horses. And yet Piero's constant attention to the regularity of proportions and the construction according to perspective never gives way to artificially sophisticated compositions, schematic symmetries or anything forced.",
    "13565": "Two views of the Canal Grande by Francesco Guardi are taken from the top section of the waterway. One looks towards the right bank with the dominating dome of San Simone Piccolo, the other looks in the opposite direction to the church Santa Lucia on the left bank which was pulled down to be replaced by the railway station.",
    "12798": "During the course of the 1630s van Goyen became the leading master of the tonal phase. His technique grew bolder and more vivacious, the space opened up, and atmosphere predominated. Water begins to play a more important role. This picture shows the characteristics of the thirties, and an all-over airiness that grows in transparency towards the far distance, with its brightened horizon.",
    "13327": "This fascinating portrait of the Palumbo-Fossati still quotes from Canova, as the painter shows the young girl at the centre with her arms uplifted. This said, the spirit underlying the painting is completely new. Romantic sensibility is already alive in this rare example of a conversational scene with a Venetian ambiance.",
    "28572": "The detail shows the Virgin Annunciate. In an age that was completely shaped by Christianity, it would have been obvious that the two top panels, showing Mary on the right and an angel on the left, belonged together as an Annunciation. This was also an arrangement found in many other polyptychs. Without knowing this, however, it would be quite conceivable to see both scenes as part of the central scenes, the Resurrection of Christ.",
    "23507": "The group in the left foreground, for example (made up of an old man on the shoulders of a young man, and a child), may be drawn from the episode of the Aeneid in which Aeneas escapes with his father, Anchises and his son, Ascanius.",
    "9652": "This still-life is composed of a great variety of forms and materials. The painter adopts a relatively high viewpoint here, providing a plunging view of the food added to the arrangement and other table utensils.",
    "27798": "This is a bozzetto for a huge painting on canvas for the decoration of the town hall in 's-Hertogenbosch. The painting glorifies the province of North Brabant and its towns as they enter the Union of Utrecht.",
    "4244": "The detail shows members of the hunting party.",
    "13762": "This picture, depicting a Satyr squeezing juice from a bunch of grapes, is an example of the rare work of David de Haen, one of the central figures in Rome in the decade immediately following the death of Caravaggio, and an important link between Italy and the North through his interpretation of Caravaggism.",
    "18277": "The wings, which show Sts Lawrence and Dorothy on their exterior, were once part of a devotional triptych. The centre is supposed to have been a Virgin and Child crowned by angels.",
    "11431": "The diagonal arrangements of the angel formations lead down to the main register, whose centre - also the centre of the wall as a whole - is occupied by the judge of the world, emphasized by his size and colourful aureole. Golden rays in the interior of the aureole surround the figure of Christ; he turns to the blessed and extend his right hand to them in invitation while his left points to the damned in dismissal. A ring of angels, four blowing trumpets, surround the judge of the world like a second bright gloriole.",
    "28006": "This scene is on the left wall of the vestibule, opposite the Sacrifice of Iphigenia.",
    "14256": "This painting portrays an unidentified man, half-length, standing before a green curtain. Van Hemessen's paintings encompassed religious works, genre subjects and only a few portraits securely attributed to him. The present portrait is attributed to him due to  a comparable portrait, given to Hemessen in full, in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna.",
    "4056": "This painting depicting a coastal landscape with fishermen with their catch by a ruined tower is a collaborative work of Jan Brueghel the Elder and Joos de Momper. The motif of the ruined tower is based on a building on the Via Appia in Rome, known as the Tower of Scipio, of which Brueghel made drawings during his stay in Rome. It is a recurring motif in Brueghel's paintings. Brueghel's friend Joos de Momper painted the figures. The friendship between Brueghel and de Momper is well known: as early as 1612-1613, Brueghel claimed to have painted the figures in six paintings by de Momper, in addition to the staffage for a series of The Four Seasons.",
    "17166": "The central group of this devotional painting repeats with some slight variations the figures in a painting now in Boston (a practically identical version of which is in the National Gallery, London). The accompanying saints are, however, radically changed. This painting, signed and dated lower right (Laurentius Lotus 1522) is probably a prototype of the paintings in Boston and London.",
    "14306": "Like his father, John Frederick Herring the Elder, sporting and animal pictures define John Frederick the Younger's work. Characteristically, he portrayed farm animals along the banks of a stream or in a farmyard, depicting them in a faithful, if not idealised, manner. This painting is signed lower centre: 'J. F. Herring'. With the painter's increasing popularity, his father began to sign his own works with the tag ‘SR’ included on the end of his signature, perhaps feeling somewhat threatened by the progress of his son.",
    "13210": "The series of apostles (apostolados) enabled a direct emotional appeal to Catholic believers. El Greco portrayed the apostles with a powerfully expressive body language. This St Luke is from a cycle for the Toledo Cathedral. El Greco included St Luke in several of his apostolados, although Luke was not actually one of the twelve apostles. Here the artist provided the Western version of a subject he depicted in quite different terms during his period as an icon painter.",
    "21759": "The detached fresco fragment illustrates an episode from ancient Roman history, related by Livy. King Tarquinius Priscus, who is standing on the left, observes an architect, bent to draw on the ground the foundations of the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. In the background, an animated crowd watches the event, also celebrated by musicians playing trumpets standing on the base of the columns. The crowded, lively composition with its focus on the foreground, also includes a view of ancient Rome in the background, and is closely influenced by Raphael's style in the Vatican Rooms, in particular in the Room of Heliodorus and in the one of the Fire of Borgo, and in the preparatory sketches for the tapestries in the Sistine Chapel. Perino had played an active role in these projects, for which he stood out as one of Raphael’s most gifted pupils. This painting, with the Justice of Zaleucus, is part of a cycle painted by Perino, together with Polidoro da Caravaggio, who decorated some of the first floor of Palazzo Baldassini in Rome, the first civic building designed by Antonio da Sangallo the Younger, between 1516 and c. 1519. The decoration was commissioned by Melchiorre Baldassini, illustrious papal jurist, consistorial lawyer, advocate for the poors, and contributor to the new Regulae of the Apostolic Chancery.",
    "13249": "The main figures on the right of the painting who stand by as the horrid spectacle unfolds have been variously identified as Paris and Helen, Adam and Eve, Poseidon and Cassandra, Apollo and Artemis. Contributing to the difficulty of interpretation is the ambivalent physical state of the figure group. The main figures are usually said to be male and female but there can be no absolute certainty, owing to its condition, that the figure looking out of the painting to the right is female. When the picture was cleaned in 1955-56, there emerged the middle head and the fifth leg that appears between the two figures. El Greco may never have wanted this mysterious figure to be visible, perhaps intending that it should be replaced by the figure looking out of the painting. The execution of the painting may have been interrupted, perhaps by the artist's death, before he was able to cover up the leg and head, thus leaving the picture in its current, not quite finished state.",
    "6709": "In this painting Courbet depicts a fellow-student and boyhood friend. This portrait shows the influence of Ingres on the young Courbet.",
    "9570": "After early training in the studios of followers of Caravaggio in Rome, Domenico Fetti moved to Mantua in 1614. Here he came into contact with the exuberant painting of Rubens and with masterpieces of the great sixteenth century Venetian artists. Thus he began to work within the cultural ambit of Venice and after a first visit there in 1621 he returned to settle in the city in the following year. This David belongs to the Mantua years and is an excellent example of the fresh, lively freedom of invention of Fetti. The sensuality of the colours and the skilful placing of the figure prevail over the inky darkness of the shadows. And the young cavalier, as he places the symbols of his iconographical identity in the shadows, offers himself to the light resplendent in the brilliantly colourful tokens of his rank and his era: the red plumed cap placed boldly on his head, the downy collar and his olive-green jacket with its fashionable slashed sleeves.",
    "16298": "This panel depicts the Virgin and Child before a green curtain with an open book. It probably dates to around 1490, contrasting with the artist's early depictions of the Virgin and Child carried out during his time spent in Siena between 1467-76, which employ gold grounds with stamped and incised haloes. This picture reflects the influences on Liberale's work, in the last decades of the fifteenth century, of the schools of Ferrara and Venice, where he is documented as living and working in 1487 before returning to Verona.",
    "14400": "Hobbema was Jacob van Ruisdael's most important follower and his only documented pupil. In the beginning the influence of the older master is unmistakable. In 1663 Hobbema's style gained more independence and, during this and the following years up to 1668, he created a series of masterpieces which gave him an outstanding position side by side with Ruisdael among the great landscapists of Holland. Hobbema's outlook on nature is less brooding, more sunny, and vivacious than Ruisdael's. While the latter favoured compactness of form and composition, Hobbema's tree groups are less tightly built, and their silhouettes are rather feathery. He likes to open up his compositions with various outlooks into a shiny distance, and his luminous skies of an intense white and blue permeate the whole with sparkling daylight. Hobbema's painterly touch is more fluid, and the colours are richly varied in an interplay of bright green and light brown, fine greys, and reds. Often an appealing blond tonality prevails.",
    "23136": "In this characteristic representation of St Jerome, alerted by a trumpet announcing the Last Judgment, he turns his gaze in its direction.",
    "27185": "Stella's art, although sometimes influenced by Poussin in terms of its composition, was often very much more light-hearted. Although he sometimes used Poussinesque figures in his larger compositions, Stella never interested himself in the moral and intellectual side of Poussin's art. The mythological story depicted in this painting is the following. Minerva (Greek Pallas Athena) was one of the major deities of ancient Greece and Rome, and, like Apollo, a benevolent and civilizing influence. In Greek mythology she was the daughter of Jupiter (Zeus), and sprang fully armed from his head. The familiar figure in armour with spear, shield and helmet, the patroness of institutions of learning and the arts, seen in civic heraldry, sculpture and painting, is only one of her many aspects. In an early form she was a war goddess, hence her weapons. She was the patroness of Athens, and the Parthenon was her temple. Ovid describes (Met. 5:250-268) how Minerva visited the Muses on Mt Helicon, their home, to listen to their song and story and to see the sacred spring, the Hippocrene, which flowed from a rock after it had been struck by the hoof of the winged horse, Pegasus. The scene is a wooded mountain-side where the company of Muses are playing their instruments or perusing books. Pegasus is seen in the background. The association of Minerva and the Muses was in line with the tradition that made her patroness of the arts.",
    "16473": "Mary, standing in profile, is accompanied by angels of the same stylistic type as those invented by Botticelli.",
    "2993": "In his pictures of the saints, Bosch seldom depicted those miraculous exploits and spectacular martyrdoms which so fascinated the later Middle Ages. The early triptych of the Crucifixion of St Liberata (Virgo fortis) is an exception. It has been proposed that Bosch painted this picture during a trip to northern Italy, but it is more likely that it was commissioned by Italian merchants or diplomats residing in the Netherlands. Earlier it was thought that the central panel represents the martyrdom of St Julia, a saint from Corsica. The attribution to Bosch of the side panels, representing St Anthony in Meditation, and Two Slave dealers, is debated.",
    "7802": "This study for an oil painting depicts in the centre the financier and collector Ernest May (1845-1925) under the portico of the Paris stock exchange. The larger, more finished oil painting is in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris.",
    "15348": "This intricately wrought scene combines the elements of the imaginative landscapes, for which Kerstiaen de Keuninck was best known, with a discernible Flemish realism. The fantastical landscape with its winding paths and striking curvature, is a backdrop for the story of Jacob's dream.",
    "13482": "This picture shows a detail of monochrome painting above the door.",
    "15585": "This painting shows Christ rising to heaven above a compact group of the twelve apostles and the Virgin Mary. Only the feet and lower legs are visible. St Peter, identifiable by his baldness and the yellow of his cloak and the Virgin Mary kneel in the immediate foreground arranged symmetrically around the composition's vertical axis. It can be noted that the composition borrows from Albrecht Dürer's Ascension in the Small Passio woodcut series. However, it departs from Dürer and returns to an earlier tradition with the symmetrical placement of Peter and Mary in the foreground, as e.g. in Schäufelein's woodcut.",
    "11974": "The pantheon of pagan divinities that surround Jupiter are for the most part paralysed with fear.",
    "6182": "The picture shows an oval ceiling panel in the east end section of the vault of the Grande Galleria in the Palazzo Colonna. It depicts The Transfer of Command by Pope Pius V. The scene belongs to the cycle on the ceiling illustrating decisive events from the military career of Marcantonio II Colonna (1535-1584). In its form and composition the narrative cycle borrows from sixteenth-century Venetian painting, which beginning with Veronese had specialised in depictions on ceilings of historical events viewed from extremely low vantage points. The cycle is a collective work by Filippo Gherardi and Giovanni Coli, the architecture painting and framing is by Johann Paul Schor and his workshop.",
    "12282": "Catalogue numbers: F 413, JH 1460. In June 1888 van Gogh travelled by coach across the Camargue, which reminded him of Holland, to the seaside resort of Les Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer on the Mediterranean. The village was famous for its fortified cathedral, built like a ship, the curious design of the thatched roofs of its cottages, and its fishing fleet. Van Gogh recorded all of these. But the novel opportunities of the place were the sea and the colourful boats. In the years 1881-83 van Gogh had often visited Scheveningen, a fishing village and holiday resort on the North Sea, a few miles from The Hague. There he drew the great fishing smacks drawn up on the beach, in the manner of Hague School painters such as Henrik Mesdag and Anton Mauve. Van Gogh's excursus into marine painting in June 1888 recalls their pictures and his own early essays in this genre. In a letter about this trip to the seaside he explicitly compares Les Saintes-Maries with Dutch seascape; it was different only in the greater brilliance of its colours. Fishing Boats on the Beach at Saintes-Maries is a reworking in paint of a sketch (F 1434) done on the spot. This painting is one of the painter's most accomplished attempts to establish a harmony of motif and colour. The motif of small boats drawn up on the beach also occurs in the work of Monet in the 1880s.",
    "7261": "This painting belonging to the Bolognese Classicism shows a triangular composition formed by Andromeda (at left), Pegasus and his winged white horse (at the top) and the monster (in the lower foreground).",
    "7147": "La Bocca della Verità (in English, \"the Mouth of Truth\") is an image, carved from marble, of a man-like face, located in the portico of the church of Santa Maria in Cosmedin in Rome, Italy. The sculpture is thought to be part of a 1st century ancient Roman fountain portraying one of several possible pagan gods, probably Oceanus. The most famous characteristic of the Mouth, however, is its role as a lie detector. Starting from the Middle Ages, it was believed that if one told a lie with one's hand in the mouth of the sculpture, it would be bitten off. The piece was placed in the portico of the Santa Maria in Cosmedin in the 17th century. In the fourteenth century this tradition was spun out into a popular story which was part of a group illustrating the 'duplicity of women.' A woman accused of adultery had to undergo the test of the Bocca della Verità in front of her husband and a judge. She persuaded her lover to come with her disguised as a fool and at the crucial moment he mischievously embraced her. She could then swear that no man apart from her husband and that fool had ever touched her. In Cranach' depiction the jealous husband  is portrayed in sharp profile on the right, the judge in his ermine-trimmed robe is on the left. In depictions made north of the Alps, the Bocca was replaced by a bronze lion on a pedestal.",
    "26369": "The picture shows a view of the frescoes in the Brizio Chapel of the Duomo at Orvieto. The figures seen in the vaults show the blessed in heaven as part of a panoramic Last Judgment began in the chapel by Fra Angelico in 1447 but left incomplete.",
    "21772": "In the Visitation fresco in the Pucci Chapel, Perino turned what was actually an intimate occasion into a many-figured scene that unfurls across a broad stage in front of a large architectural backdrop with numerous spectators expressing their joy and their astonishment over the event heralded, the incarnation of God. The influence of Raphael's School of Athens here is undeniable.",
    "2669": "It was probably in Vienna that Jakab Bogdány, the son of a Protestant family in the town of Eperjes, began his studies; later, between 1684 and 1688, he worked in Amsterdam, which was then the centre of the bourgeois genres, most notably of still-life painting. For the young painter, the Dutch influence proved decisive on several account: it can be detected in his still-lifes with flowers and fruits in the use of colours, while the genre-like composition of his paintings depicting birds reveals the assimilation of Melchior de Hondecoeter's paintings of animals. Elegant parks with beautiful birds are the sites of Bogdány's high society genre scenes. The exquisite components, such as fountains or antique ruins, enhance the grace and refinement of the composition. The painter obeyed the taste of his commissioners and made their paintings to fit into their surroundings. Bogdány, who moved to England in 1688 and worked for the royal family and for the members of the English aristocracy, died as an esteemed artist. He studied the main attractions of his compositions, the exotic birds from the colonies, in the then very fashionable birds' houses; their precise depiction can also be seen in the painting \"Still-life with Birds\" from the 1710s. Bogdány's paintings are still kept in their original surrounding, in English mansions and in the summer resorts of the Royal Family.",
    "31971": "It is interesting to compare this painting with Houckgeest's painting of the same view in the Mauritshuis, The Hague. The man and boy on the left and a couple and child in front of the tomb were adopted from Houckgeest but are now less distant and isolated. The figures in the centre have become a second family with a young servant and greyhounds, one of them catching the other dog's attention and a brilliant fall of light. The architectural motifs are obviously derived from Houckgeest.",
    "30569": "Signature: Signed top left. Provenance: The provenance of this painting cannot be traced back very far. All earlier documents or sales catalogs cited by Blankert are pure guesswork. Vermeer seems to have painted a number of \"heads,\" and various cited 'tronie', as they were called, cannot be further identified. We only know for certain that the work was purchased at the beginning of 1882 for the collection A. A. des Tombe of The Hague for fl. 2.30 in the sale Braam of the same city. The des Tombe collection was a public collection and bequeathed the picture in 1903 to the Mauritshuis. This charming portrait of a girl is unfortunately in a very poor state of conservation and suffered from numerous extensive restorations. It is furthermore marred by an ugly pattern of cracks. Nevertheless, it became famous after its rediscovery and was dubbed the \"Gioconda of the North\" by many enthusiastic critics. Fortunately, enough of the original is left to permit the savouring of a truly outstanding and partly exotic work. The girl is seen against a neutral, dark background, very nearly black, which establishes a powerful three-dimensionality of effect. Seen from the side, the girl is turning to gaze at us, and her lips are slightly parted, as if she were about to speak to us. It is an illusionist approach often adopted in Dutch art. She is inclining her head slightly to one side as if lost in thought, yet her gaze is keen. The girl is dressed in an unadorned, brownish-yellow jacket, and the shining white collar contrasts clearly against it. The blue turban represents a further contrast, while a lemon-yellow, veil-like cloth falls from its peak to her shoulders. Vermeer used plain, pure colours in this painting, limiting the range of tones. As a result, the number of sections of colour are small, and these are given depth and shadow by the use of varnish of the same colour. The girl's headdress has an exotic effect. Turbans were a popular fashionable accessory in Europe as early as the 15th century, as is shown by Jan van Eyck's probable self portrait, now in the National Gallery in London. During the wars against the Turks, the remote way of life and foreign dress of the \"enemy of Christendom\" proved to be very fascinating. A particularly noticeable feature of Vermeer's painting is the large, tear-shaped pearl hanging from the girl's ear; part of it has a golden sheen, and it stands out from the part of the neck which is in shadow. In his Introduction to the Devout Life (1608), which was published in a Dutch translation in 1616, the mystic St Francis De Sales (1567-1622) wrote, \"Both now and in the past it has been customary for women to hang pearls from their ears; as Pliny observed, they gain pleasure from the sensation of the swinging pearls touching them. But I know that God's friend, Isaac, sent earrings to chaste Rebecca as a first token of his love. This leads me to think that this jewel has a spiritual meaning, namely that the first part of the body that a man wants, and which a woman must loyally protect, is the ear; no word or sound should enter it other than the sweet sound of chaste words, which are the oriental pearls of the gospel.\" From this it is clear that the pearl in Vermeer's painting is a symbol of chastity. The oriental aspect, which is mentioned in the above extract, is further emphasised by the turban. The reference to Isaac and Rebecca suggests that this picture could have been painted on the occasion of this young woman's marriage. So to that extent it is a portrait. There is surely a similar explanation for the Head of a Girl dressed in a smart, grey dress (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York). One must admire the artist's technique, which features application of the pigments in juxtaposition and melting, avoiding precise lines, and therefore blurring the contours of different colours so as to obtain effects that foreshadow those of the impressionists. The dark backgrounds that Vermeer chose in these two portraits enhance the plasticity of the models.",
    "25698": "Cecchino del Salviati was entrusted by Cardinal Giovanni Ricci (1497-1574) to paint the hall in his newly acquired palace in the Via Giulia in Rome in 1552. In ten of the eleven rooms frescoed, mostly by little-known artists, the painting consists only of narrow wall friezes, some with themes from antiquity, some with themes from the Old Testament. By contrast, the hall, now known as the Sala dei Mappamundi and previously as the Sala dell'Udienza Invernale, received a significantly more elaborate decoration by the best available painter, Salviati. The general subject - the story of David as told in the first and second books of Samuel - was assigned to Salviati by Ricci, but in the choice of the individual scenes Salviati seems to have had great freedom. Salviati designed an original decorative system which dealt with the existing features of the room whose walls were irregularly divided by windows and doors. Above a high 'basamento' he painted an illusionistic high-columned hall on three of the walls which forms the supporting scaffold for a series of differently framed, large 'quadri riportati'. The decorative system gives the impression of being in a room in which an art lover is putting his treasures on display. The decoration is intended to show the wealth and fortune of its patron. The fifteen scenes of the story of David are not arranged in a chronological order, rather they are organized according to criteria of formal symmetry and thematic correspondences.",
    "8569": "The picture's name derives from the Rucellai Chapel of Santa Maria Novella where it remained, after being moved to several different places inside the church, from 1591 to 1937, the year of the Giotto exhibition. It was then transferred to the Uffizi. The panel was commissioned in 1285. The painting has been the subject of much controversy among critics. In the fifteenth century it was thought to be the work of Cimabue, and this attribution, supported by Vasari, was accepted until the beginning of the twentieth century. The design of the frame decorated with roundels, the three pairs of angels flanking the throne and the sweeping gesture of the Child's blessing hand, show undeniable similarities to Cimabue's Maestà, now in the Louvre but at that time in the Church of San Francesco in Pisa. This may have been the inspiration of Duccio; Giorgio Vasari, in his Lives (not always completely reliable), documents a not improbable sojourn in Pisa. The elements from Cimabue are enriched with delicate Gothic overtones, unknown at that time, but which were to become a permanent feature of Sienese art. The brilliance of colour, the curving outlines and the sinuous movement of the gilded edging of Mary's cloak are all new. The entire structure of the throne reflects the influence from beyond the Alps: the panels are slender mullioned windows, the foot-rest is supported by a light double arch, the back is crowned with delicate arching and little pinnacles. The iconographical interpretation is also new in that the angels holding up the throne no longer form the crowning part of a solemn and magnificent background but are all looking towards the Virgin in attitudes of intense emotional participation. The connection with the 1285 contract is borne out by the painted frame that fulfils a specific iconographical purpose in accordance with the intentions of the Confraternity of the Laudesi. This was founded within the Dominican order, around 1244-45, with the object of fighting heresy by means of an intensive preaching programme. In the medallion placed at the top is the image of Christ. On his left are twelve figures, mostly prophets and patriarchs, among whom are: John the Baptist immediately next to the Redeemer, King David crowned and with the psalms, the young Daniel holding a roll. On the right of the Virgin, the Apostles, to whom the Child is turning to give his blessing, represent the New Testament. Peter and John the Evangelist are the first of the saints, many of whom are complete with books and scrolls that refer to the Gospel and in a more general sense underline the importance of preaching. The roundels in the lower section, more easily visible to the faithful, contain images of the saints to whom the Laudesi and the Dominicans were particularly devoted. In the centre is St Augustine of Hippo, whose rule guided the Dominican friars. On the left are Catherine of Alexandria and Dominic. On the right is Zenobius, early medieval bishop and patron of the city, accompanied by Peter the Martyr, the then recently canonized founder of the Confraternity. The significance of the frame and the medallions is therefore not solely ornamental but conveys the commissioners' desire for self-proclamation: the Dominican brotherhood was to be visualized as a lay group championing the cult of the Virgin.",
    "2603": "In the background is the annunciation to the shepherds, as well as the Holy Family in flight to Egypt twice and the Magi on horseback. The represented saint in the foreground are Catherine of Alexandria, Christine, Peter, and John the Baptist.",
    "4356": "Nocturnal celebrations here give the artist the opportunity to transform the city under the dazzling light of the fireworks, offering the observer an unusual vision of streets and palazzos cloaked in a magical, almost supernatural atmosphere.",
    "21089": "The painting depicts the Thronum Gratiae (Throne of Grace). An almost identical representation of the subject can be seen in Nardo di Cione's triptych in the Galleria dell'Accademia, Florence. The Thronum Gratiae traditionally shows God the Father seated on a throne, with his legs slightly apart, holding the arms of the cross of Jesus in front of him in his hands, while the dove of the Holy Spirit flies over them (or between them). The panel is deposited to National Museum in Warsaw by a private collection.",
    "26278": "The picture shows the English battery before the Morro Castle.",
    "28762": "In the latter part of his career Titian continued to give much care to portraits, though painting fewer. The most flamboyant is the Portrait of a Man in Military Costume dateable to the early 1550s. He is portrayed so theatrically that it is hard to take him seriously. Titian only adopted the full-length format for clients of the highest rank and surprisingly in so swagger an image the sitter has escaped identification. His outfit also needs to be better understood since it seems halfway between a military and a hunting costume. The identity of the subject of this life-size painting is unknown, probably it represents Ferrante Gonzaga (1507-1557), a successful commander under Charles V and later viceroy of Sicily and governor of Milan. The Cupid fiddling with his magnificently decorated helmet sets the portrait in an allegorical-mythical context.",
    "20724": "In this genre scene three men are depicted relaxing in a sparse interior as one plays his violin and the others jovially hold a pipe and vessels for drinking. The scene is set in a basement, the light creeps in beneath the floor boards above.",
    "6784": "A ripe young woman stands in a doorway holding a tapestry aside with the back if her hand. She carries a basket overflowing with fruit, quite as her bodice seems about to spill its abundant contents. Although the woman presumably is entering the room in which the viewer finds himself (that he is male need not be debated), it also seems that she has paused in the doorway, inviting him to withdraw to a private space. The painting has also be said to represent Pomona, the Roman goddess of fruit. While classical and even biblical references often served as pretexts for including sexy pictures in the seventeenth century collections, there are few works for which such a claim is less convincing. Van Couwenbergh's canvas is an exceptionally straightforward version of a type of painting that first flourished in Utrecht during the 1620s and became popular in court circles at The Hague between about 1635 and 1650. Gerard van Honthorst and Paulus Moreelse often painted courtesans dressed as shepherdess, a bird in the hand or an offer of fruit may recall Venus, Eve, Pomona, or some other ancient prototype, but the costumes, with tantalizingly low necklines, and the blond tresses framing Dutch faces must have made contemporary viewers feel right at home.",
    "19587": "David was a shepherd boy who became king of Israel. Much legend appears to surround the biblical account of this complex and many-sided personality. He was a bandit chief, a warrior and a statesman; he made Israel a united kingdom and captured Jerusalem, making it his capital; he was a musician and was traditionally believed to be the author of the Psalms; as a king he was not above intrigue which brought about the death of his mistress' husband. He is important in Christian art not merely as the 'type' or prefiguration of Christ; according to Matthew he was a direct ancestor. The fight of David and Goliath (I Sam. 17:38-51) is often depicted in art. The armies of the Philistines and Israelites were ranged against each other. Goliath of Gath, the Philistines' champion, was over eight feet tall with a helmet of brass, a coat of mail and greaves of brass on his legs; he had a spear like a weaver's beam. David refused the armour Saul offered him (though he is sometimes wrongly portrayed wearing it) and instead took five stones for his sling, putting them in his scrip, or bag. The affair was soon over. The two combatants approached exchanging taunts. David took a stone from his bag, slung it and struck Goliath on the forehead, felling him. He then quickly took the Philistine's own sword and cut off his head. This was the signal for the Israelites to attack and they routed the enemy. The story was made a prefiguration of Christ's temptation in the desert, by the devil, and was used in a wider context to symbolize the victory of right over wrong. Michelangelo's fresco depicts the last moment of the fight before the soldiers in the background. Out of the darkness a blinding light illuminates the figures of the protagonists - David and Goliath - locked in mortal combat, with a field tent in the background, while, in the corners on both sides, faces of soldiers may be discerned in the shadows.",
    "31591": "One of the most famous of Watteau's paintings, this scenes portrays a troupe of Italian actors, who improvised satirical skits in Paris, lined up as if for a curtain call. The personalities of these players were stock characterizations; the figure in the centre is Pierrot, who was cast as the amiable yet unsuccessful lover who was constantly ridiculed. Despite the animated gestures and flickering light, a certain tender pathos pervades the scenes. One of Watteau's last works, painted shortly before his death at the age of thirty-seven, this canvas was supposedly given to his English doctor in payment of a medical fee.",
    "25027": "The Salzburg painter Johann Michael Rottmayr was commissioned in 1705 to decorate the ground floor halls and the stairwells in the Liechtenstein Garden Palace at Rossau. The picture shows one of the ceiling frescoes in the Ladies Apartments where the paintings contain motifs related to women (Virtue, Ariadne, Andromeda).",
    "26569": "The altarpiece was painted for the Angevin, Robert the Wise, King of Sicily. It represents St Louis of Toulouse seated with his brother, Robert the Wise, kneeling before him. The altar is important for its format. It consists of a large upper panel containing the image of the saint; and a predella beneath containing five small scenes showing episodes taken from his life. This is the first altarpiece to survive intact with an historiated predella. (It was certainly not the first to exist.) Simone's altar marks the beginning of a process whereby this format gradually became the normal one. The St Louis altar, being a family monument, is also a good example of court art. The comparatively new demands for facial characterization, up to now associated mainly with sculpture, are here extended to painting in the kneeling figure of Robert the Wise. There is a considerable emphasis on costume, Robert kneeling in what are presumably his coronation robes. Both these and St Louis's cope are liberally covered with family heraldry. This extends to the frame, for the border of the whole panel is carved with \"fleur-de-lis\". Finally, the whole work was given an added sparkle and glitter by the addition of goldsmith's work to parts of St Louis figure; and also by the addition of stones (probably semi-precious) to such objects as the crowns. These are now lost but such additions were regularly made to royal tomb effigies in the north. In the predella, set in an arcade, there are five small pictures with scenes from the saint's life. They show: 1. his acceptance of the episcopal office, on condition that he would at the same time be permitted to enter the Franciscan order; 2. his entry into the Franciscan order and consecration as bishop; 3. washing the hands of the poor and inviting them to his table; 4. Louis on his bier; 5. the miracle of the boy raised from the dead.",
    "19416": "Martin van Meytens as a court painter had the permanent task of painting the portraits of the Emperor and the Queen, as well as of the various members of the imperial family. Since the decoration of various residences and institutes, gifts to foreign sovereigns, aristocrats and diplomats and various festive occasions made necessary several copies of the imperial portraits, these courtly representations were made in series by the workshop, and Meytens himself played only a minor or greater part in their execution. He had no occasion to make more than a study of a head after the model the Queen had neither the time nor patience to sit for the artist for a long time. This original head  or bust sketch was copied with different poses, clothes and accessories for the different imperial portraits. The portrait of Maria Theresa exhibited here is very similar to her figure in the great family portrait made in 1754 (Vienna, Schönbrunn). Her pose, hairstyle, neckline, the piece of jewelry worn at the collar and the gesture of her right hand are all identical. The study which served for both pictures as a model, was copied several more times by Meytens and his workshop.",
    "14623": "Honthorst's genre painting relates to the subject portrayed by his fellow Utrecht Caravaggisti. It depicts a provocative scene of a wanton student (the prodigal son?) in the company of two prostitutes and a procuress carrying an infant. The pages of an immense open folio on the table are brilliantly illuminated by candle-light as is the semi-nude torso of the theorbo-playing prostitute. One of the pages illustrates an older man and a nude child, most likely Cupid, beating a woman who holds a large book. The opposite page shows a Latin poem.",
    "23057": "The effect of the simulated cupola rests largely on the figural groupings on the pendentives, which were executed immediately after the canvas with the painted cupola was put in place. Painted on actual concave pendentives, they make the sham cupola more believable, especially when viewed from the entrance. The monumental figures (Judith, David, Samson, Jael) have an imposing physicality, emphasized by their bright colours and strong contrasts.",
    "31982": "De Witte was born in Alkmaar, the son of a schoolmaster. He worked in Delft and entered the Delft guild in 1642. By 1652 he settled in Amsterdam where he spent the rest of his life. In Amsterdam de Witte continued to paint views of Delft churches, but he was inspired more often by the metropolis's grand buildings: its Old Church, lofty New Church, Stock Exchange, and, after it was consecrated in 1675, its Portuguese-Jewish Synagogue. This synagogue was built between 1671 and 1675 for the Spanish and Portuguese (Sephardic) Jews who as of the end of the sixteenth century had settled in Amsterdam where they could profess their faith in relative freedom. In this respect the synagogue symbolizes the tolerant religious climate in the Republic of the United Netherlands. De Witte portrayed the synagogue during a service, with believers wearing hats draped with pale yellow talliths, or fringed prayer shawls. To the left of middle is the teba, or bimah (the platform in the middle of a synagogue from where the Torah is read), with on it the cantor and the parnas, or synagogue president, and against the back wall the Hechal, or Holy Ark. It is known from contemporary sources that the synagogue was considered a sight worth seeing. This is confirmed in the present painting: most of the figures in the foreground are non-Jewish visitors. The synagogue features more often in paintings, but only its exterior and as part of a city view. In so far as is known, De Witte is the only seventeenth-century painter to have portrayed the interior of this building. He did it at least three times.",
    "498": "Vasari records this as being executed around 1529 for Bartolommeo Panciatichi the Elder. Andrea began it and carried it out almost to the end, but because the panel split several times as the work was begun and then suspended, the picture remained not entirely finished at his death. In this immense panel we have one of the most important work of Andrea (who is there represented in the person of the Apostle seen from the back, half-turned towards the spectator) on account of the fine composition divided between earth and sky, the figure of the standing Apostle serving as link between these parts.",
    "10081": "Friedrich's native town becomes a symbol of longing for a better world. The prancing horses, the geese and the pond reflecting the sky reinforce the sense of idyll.",
    "24550": "Rippl-Rónai portrayed the musician Riccardo Viñes Roda, who lived in Paris, when the latter visited the artist's studio after his concert at the Music Academy in Budapest. The solemn-coloured expressive portrait depicts the figure of the Catalan pianist with a fine empathy. Rippl-Rónai's ability to show the mentality of the person he portrays can be seen in many portraits he made of his artist friends in the 1910s.",
    "18454": "The Virgin is represented here by this anonymous artist working in Tuscany in the Byzantine manner as the Queen of Heaven, seated on a throne held up by two angels who look out at the viewer in the Byzantine manner. Below, the two saints, St Dominic and St Martin, are identified by their names.",
    "29220": "The three paintings of the Battle of San Romano are universally attributed to Paolo Uccello. The three scenes are: Niccolò da Tolentino Leads the Florentine Troops, London, National Gallery; Bernardino della Ciarda Thrown Off His Horse, Florence, Uffizi; Micheletto da Cotignola Engages in Battle, Paris, Louvre. Together with the stories from the life of Noah these are undoubtedly Uccello's most famous works. In all three the battle scene is interpreted in terms of a chaotic melee of horsemen, lances and horses in a desperate struggle, portrayed through an endless series of superimposed and intersecting perspective planes. As in the stories from the life of Noah in Santa Maria Novella, here too the movement which should animate the scenes appears to be frozen, as it were, by the isolation of the individual details, all realistically portrayed. See, for instance, the elaborate heavy armour, the leather saddles, the gilded studs, the horses' shiny coats, and of course the splendid \"mazzocchi', the huge multifaceted headgear that Uccello often included in his pictyres due to the specific difficulty of painting it in proper perspective.",
    "9049": "The subject of Isaac Blessing Jacob was a popular one and was represented by several Dutch pupils and followers of Rembrandt in the 1640s. Similarly to the other versions, this painting shows the influence of Rembrandt. The arrangement of the exotic bed, with its fancy head- and footboard, the canopy above, the table, and the platform seem to have been inspired by Rembrandt's Danaë of 1636.",
    "28276": "Tintoretto decorated the walls of the Sala dell'Albergo by paintings showing important moments from the Passion of Christ and he finished them in the early months of 1567. The most admired has always been Christ before Pilate. Perhaps while painting it Tintoretto partially kept in mind one of the wood-engravings by Albrecht Dürer, evidence of the lasting spell held by German graphics of the first half of the 16th century over the imagination of the protagonists of Venetian Mannerist interpretations. The dramatic staging of the scene is however completely original. In a very fine and measured luministic web the figure of Christ, wrapped in a white mantle, stands out like a shining blade against the crowd and the architectural scenery. He is centred by a bright ray of light and stands tall in front of the hypocritically bureaucratic judge that is Pilate who is portrayed in red robes and as if sunk in shadows. Certainly taking up the idea of Carpaccio in his St Ursula cycle, Tintoretto portraits the old secretary at the foot of Pilate's throne. He leans against a stool covered with dark green cloth and with great diligent enthusiasm notes down every moment, every word spoken by the judge amid the murmurings of the pitiless crowd which obstinately clamours for the death of Christ. Remark to Hungarian visitors: the famous painting of Mihály Munkácsy depicting the same subject was undoubtedly and strongly influenced by the composition of this painting.",
    "27933": "Giambattista Tiepolo collaborated with the Venetian quadratura painter Girolamo Mengozzi Colonna on the ceiling fresco of the nave of the church of St. Mary of Nazareth called the 'Scalzi', completing the work in 1743-45 following the careful preparation of studies and models. The grandiose fresco depicting the 'transportation of the holy house of Loreto' was almost completely destroyed during World War I. The picture shows one of the few remaining fragments.",
    "9069": "The lady beside a fountain, three-quarter length, is said to be the Marchioness of Montchevreuil.",
    "16303": "Figural compositions are for the most part secondary to the architectural layout, and the only place figures appear, besides the ceiling is along the two short walls where there are depictions of The Temple of the Arts and Mars Accompanied by Learning, Truth, and Eloquence. These paintings are attributed to Pietro Liberi. The picture shows the short wall with Mars Accompanied by Learning, Truth, and Eloquence. The faux architecture is by Domenico Bruni.",
    "18215": "On the right side, the Baptist's Sermon at the Jordan scene wraps around the corner into the window embrasure, where a group of John's listeners are depicted. Here we find three men with portrait-like features. One of these has been convincingly identified, owing to its similarities to other surviving portraits. as Leon Battista Alberti.",
    "27115": "It is true that the depiction contains scores of references to the \"dissolute household\", a motif that Steen embroidered on countless paintings, yet quite correctly the picture once was called a proverb painting. In this detail, the young man casts roses at the pig, and Steen is thus referring to the proverb \"Strooit geen rozen voor de varkens\" (literally: Do not spread roses before pigs [i.e. To cast pearls before swine]), generally used to connote the offering of something valuable to somewhat who is not cultured enough to appreciate it.",
    "9408": "This painting represents a view in the village of Rijnsburg, a community situated to the west of Leiden. Rijnsburg was famous for being Baruch Spinoza's residence for some time in the 17th century. The view shows an alley known as the Pijlsteeg (later known as the Tramstaart) in Rijnsburg, with to the right the Rentmeestershuis of the Knighthood of Holland, the tower of the Abbey Church and the perimeter wall of the Beguinage.",
    "12055": "The centre panel (48 x 25 cm) shows Christ crowning the Virgin surrounded by saints; while on the left wing (48 x 13 cm) is the Nativity, on the right wing (48 x 13 cm), the Crucifixion. Above are the Archangel Gabriel and the Virgin Annunciate. This triptych was painted for private devotion and is one of only two works by the artist known to have been made in Lombardy.",
    "7978": "The monumental canvases depicting episodes in the adventures of Eros, the god of love, and his beloved, the mortal maiden Psyche, were created for the music room of Ivan Morozov's mansion in Moscow. They are exhibited now in the reconstructed music room in The Hermitage, St. Petersburg. In panel 3 of the series, we see Psyche with the lamp raised to view her husband as not a monster but Eros. Startled Eros awakes and flies out of the window.",
    "12352": "Catalogue numbers: F 643, JH 1799. The trees in the garden have an assured air. The atmosphere they establish is one of snug comfort beneath their inviting shade, an atmosphere that perhaps does not quite fit the place, the garden of an asylum.",
    "11738": "The way in which Giotto creates the opportunity to heighten the expression is illustrated by this detail, which shows the saint directly next to the Virgin's throne. Separation - through the end of the throne - and closeness - through the gaze - are combined here in a single arc of tension.",
    "14108": "The painting depicts a richly laid table in studied disorder. The structure and composition are borrowed from Jan Davidsz. de Heem, the artist's father (see e.g. the still-life in Berlin). However, the faithful reproduction, the clear, brilliant colours and the intense light that sets off the objects it strikes, make the painting appear harsher and less animated than Jan Davidsz.' works.",
    "950": "Arcimboldo's most famous works are the fantasy paintings representing human faces and composed from flowers, fruits, fishes and other objects. Sometimes these paintings have allegoric or moral references. Arcimboldo made a number of portraits of people in the immediate entourage of Emperor Maximilian II. These portraits were often composed with the specific tools of their trade or profession. This portrait depicts an old man composed largely of books piled one above and against each other. An open book on top of his head forms his hat. The figure is held together by a cloak shaped from the drapery in the background. The librarian has been interpreted as a portrait of Wolfgang Lazius, a learned collector and scientist who was in charge of the Emperor's Kunstkammer and who arranged his numismatic collection and his library.",
    "13963": "This serious and austere painting represents a group of everyday objects which are arranged in an orderly fashion on a table top. In the foreground, creating the central motif of the composition, are some cakes and rolls, while to the right is a cheese mould and on the left some cups and jars.",
    "15826": "The painting illustrates an episode from canto XVI (stanzas 60-63) of Tasso's Gerusalemme Liberata. The artist's focus is on the defining moment of pathos as Rinaldo takes his final leave of Armida, with the hero caught between guilt for abandoning the unconscious Armida and the pressing need to follow his destiny, placed in the hands of Fortune, who is depicted holding the tiller. The painting is signed and dated on the hull of the ship: \"IOA.S LANFRANCUS PARM/1614.\" There is a second, slightly smaller version of this theme by Lanfranco in an Italian private collection.",
    "17198": "In Venice, Lotto produced a series of brilliant portraits in which the depth of psychological exploration was unprecedented and the originality of conception, style, and deployment of pictorial resources was unsurpassed. The e portrait of Bishop Tommaso Negri belongs to this group, together with the Portrait of Andrea Odoni, the Portrait of a Young Man, and the Portrait of a Lady as Lucretia.",
    "16625": "An orphan placed in the friary as a child, Fra Filippo took his vows at Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence in 1421, in time to observe Masaccio and Masolino at work on the famous frescoes there. He was more suited to the life of a painter than to that of a Carmelite, for in 1456, while chaplain to a convent in Prato, he induced a nun to elope with him. She was to bear him a child, Filippino, who grew up to be an excellent painter of outstandingly chaste morals. Filippo was employed as an artist by the Medici, and through their intercession obtained a special dispensation to marry Filippino's mother. The Annunciation is one of a pair of panels originally from a Medici palace in Florence; the other, hanging also in the National Gallery, depicts seven saints of special significance to the family. The shape and subject matter of both panels suggest that they were part of the furnishings of two separate but related rooms, either as bed-heads or as panels situated above a bed or door. While the Seven Saints illustrates a dynastic theme through the male members of the family, the Annunciation would have been more suitable for a woman's room. The Medici device of three feathers within a diamond ring is `sculpted' in relief on the edge of the parapet which separates the Virgin's `garden enclosed' from her bedchamber. Mary's purity is further alluded to in the lilies held by the Archangel Gabriel and those growing in the urn between them. From the centre of the arched top of the panel the hand of God the Father has launched the dove of the Holy Spirit. Its spiraling flight path, outlined in glittering gold, is about to end in the Virgin's womb from which emanates a small scattering of gold rays. In Mary's submissive pose Lippi illustrates the moment in the Gospel of Saint Luke (l: 38) when she says: `Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word.' All the qualities for which the Medici prized Fra Filippo's art are demonstrated in this image. The austerity of the centralised perspective (the slope of the floor is exaggerated to account for the angle at which the panel was originally to be viewed) and of the strict geometry inherited from Masaccio is tempered by the artist's sublimely delicate use of line, colour and ornament. The Virgin's transparent veil gently softens the curve of her neck and shoulders, Gabriel's peacock wings echo the curve of the arch. But the greatest beauty of the painting resides in the meeting of angel and Virgin, virtual mirror images of each other. The one inclines his profiled head and bends his arm in gentle deference, the other responds with grave humility.",
    "17487": "This painting belongs to a type of circular images of the Madonna, emerged in Florence  in the second third of the fifteenth century. Mainardi worked in the workshop of Domenico Ghirlandaio and followed his masters style. The town, seen through the window on the left, resembles to Mainardi's native San Gimignano with its tall towers.",
    "12696": "Goya clearly had in mind for this royal group the composition of Velázquez's Meninas, which he had copied in an engraving many years before. Like Velázquez, he has placed himself at an easel in the background, to one side of the canvas. But his is a more formal royal portrait than Velázquez's: the figures are grouped almost crowded together in front of the wall and there is no attempt to create an illusion of space. The eyes of Goya are directed towards the spectator as if he were looking at the whole scene in a mirror. The somewhat awkward arrangement of the figures suggests, however, that he composed the group in his studio from sketches made from life. Goya is known to have made four journeys to Aranjuez in 1800 to paint ten portraits of the royal family. Since there are 12 figures in the group it is likely that the woman seen in profile and the woman whose head is turned away — the only two whose identity is uncertain were not present at the time. Goya's magnificent royal assembly is dominated not by Charles IV but by the central figure of the Queen, María Luisa, whose ugly features are accentuated by her ornate costume and rich jewels. For some unknown reason this was the last occasion that Goya is known to have painted any member of this royal family, except for the future Ferdinand VII, who stands in the foreground on the left. The unusual figure composition on the wall behind the group has been identified as Lot and his Daughters, but no such painting has been identified.",
    "30447": "This painting depicts a fruit and flower garland around a bunch of grapes, with roses, tulips, sweat pea, anemone, field, bindweed, larkspur, hibiscus and martagon lily.",
    "4320": "The saints flankig the Virgin are St Jude, St Simon Zelotes and the young St John the Baptist. The painting is signed and dated 1586.",
    "18699": "The Master of the Legend of St Ursula was never a real imitator of Memling. Yet one cannot deny that the conception of the three portraits is unimaginable without the latter. The donors' panel is in structure as it were a simplified detail of the 1484 Moreel triptych )Groeninge Museum, Bruges) by Memling. The Virgin is less dependent upon Memling and typologically much closer to Dieric Bouts. The facial type with high rounded forehead and an inlet in the hair on both sides, and the Child with his awkwardly turned leg, are both typical. The motif of the book already appears in Van der Weyden's Durán Virgin Prado, Madrid) and was later used by various painters. The round throne and the canopy held open by angels is an invention of the master himself and a recurrent motif in his oeuvre. The carnation may here refer to the Salvation. This diptych is the Ursula Master's only dated work. Moreover, the age of the donors is also inscribed on the frame. They probably belonged to the same family.",
    "6663": "The painting depicts the Colonnade erected in 1684 on the grounds of the château at Versailles.",
    "3105": "Two angels are lifting the child up to the Madonna, who is lost in thought. Almost casually, she gently holds her child's feet, and he is looking at his mother in just as solemn and spellbound a manner as the two angels. Behind the group, which is composed to form a powerful, elegant linear design, is the corner of a wall, an allusion to the Hortus Conclusus, the enclosed garden which is a symbol of Marys virginity.",
    "25866": "Stefano di Giovanni, known as Sassetta, was among the leading Sienese artists of the century. In 1437 he received one of the most extensive, and expensive, commissions in Sienese fifteenth-century painting: a double-sided polyptych for the church of San Francesco in Borgo San Sepolcro (the native town of his younger contemporary Piero della Francesca). The figures and the scenes were to be specified by the friars. The altarpiece was painted in sections for easy transport from Siena to Borgo San Sepolcro, where it was delivered in 1444. It was dismembered in 1752; in the nineteenth century surviving fragments were sold to various collections. As far as its original appearance can now be reconstructed, this great Franciscan altarpiece, like Duccio's Maestà in Siena Cathedral, showed the Madonna and Child enthroned in the front main tier facing the congregation in the nave. The back, facing the friars in the choir, depicted Saint Francis Triumphant standing on Insubordination, Luxury and Avarice and surrounded by eight smaller scenes from his life ranged in two tiers on either side. Seven of these scenes are now in the National Gallery. The panel illustrated here is one of the best preserved. It shows one of the key events of Francis's life, cited in the process of his canonisation: the impression on his body of the five wounds of Christ. The miracle occurred on 14 September 1224 on La Verna. This forest-covered mountain near Arezzo, where he founded an eremetical convent, had been given to Francis in 1213; it is still a site of pilgrimage. There are many textual sources for Francis's biography; Sassetta, however, almost certainly based his interpretation on artistic tradition. For example, the saint was alone when Christ appeared to him, but it had become customary in painting and sculpture to show his follower Brother Leo witnessing the event, as he is doing here, looking up in wonder from his book of devotions. Giotto had already depicted Saint Francis in the same pose, kneeling and raising his arms to the six-winged seraph-Christ. Sassetta is in many ways a paradoxical painter. Like Giovanni di Paolo and all other Sienese artists, he was deeply in thrall to his great Sienese predecessors of the fourteenth century, the followers of Duccio. He had studied Florentine art of the same period as well as of his own time. Around 1432 he became acquainted with French and northern Italian miniatures. Something of all these sources is evident here, in the ornamental forms of the trees, the unrealistic ledge-like rocks of the foreground and the oblique angle at which he sets the chapel nestling in the mountain - a fourteenth-century method of suggesting perspective. At the same time as Sassetta emulated the decorative effects of archaic styles, he could not help but be influenced by the artistic advances of his day. Thus the supernatural light flooding La Verna from the seraph is virtually consistent throughout the painting. Mountain shadows darken the stuccoed façade of the chapel, with its Virgin and Child above the door; Saint Francis's cord belt casts a shadow on his habit, and his parted fingers on the ground behind his shoulder. The miracle - which has caused the wooden cross in the makeshift oratory to bleed and makes of Francis an 'alter Christus,' a second Christ - is felt throughout the natural world, a red sunset staining the Umbrian hills.",
    "7064": "In front of the landscape setting, one of the putti swings diagonally across the picture in a loop of rope suspended somewhere above the scene. As he swings, he turns towards his companions. Below him to the left two boys with raised arms stand ready to give him a shove when he swings back, and behind then is a girl seen in rear view looking pensively at the swinging boy. The picture could be seen as a comparatively mild precursor of the much more daring French Rococo composition where the swing of love is occupied by an adult. Above the scene, surrounded by a menacing black cloud, the women can clearly be seen as witches as they gallop naked across the sky on bull, boar, and serpent. They are led by a knight in an elegant nobleman's outfit, mounted on a billy goat.",
    "7051": "Cranach's painting is about the human yearning for immortality and eternal youth. Human beings dream of being young again, of leaving the worn outer shell and exchanging it for a new one. The notion of the cleansing power of the elements, especially of water, is as old as humankind itself. The centre of the scene is a pool filled with water. Some steps lead down to the pool, which is surrounded by a fantastic landscape far from civilisation. People have undertaken arduous journeys to reach this solitary spot and bathe in the miraculous waters. In the left half of the picture wrinkled and frail old women are brought up on carts and stretchers. They are undressed and examined by a doctor before stepping into the water where the gradual process of rejuvenation takes place. Their wrinkles and old sallow skin disappear, their flesh becomes rosy and smooth, and they turn into young girls. As they emerge from the water they are welcomed by a cavalier who shows them to a tent where they receive new clothes. Old peasant women are transformed into young ladies of the court who indulge in the carefree pleasures of life. The jollifications at the festive table, the dancing, music and lovemaking, all take place in a lush flowering landscape. These are the realms of eternal youth, to which the hardships of old age, set in a barren rocky landscape on the left side of the picture, form a stark contrast. The fountain spouting water from the spring into the pool bears the statues of Venus and Cupid - evidence that this is actually a fountain of love rather than youth, and that the power of love is the true source of immortality.",
    "10950": "Ghirlandaio incorporated portraits of his contemporaries in many biblical scenes. It is probably for precisely that reason that he was so popular among the rich Florentines, who were particularly keen on self portrayal. This makes it all the more astonishing that so few secular portraits by Ghirlandaio have survived. There are two paintings dating from about 1490, in the Paris Musée du Louvre and in Madrid, that are masterpieces of his art and yet fundamentally different: Giovanna Tornabuoni is idealized to the extent of becoming an \"icon\" of beauty for young Florentine girls, while the old man with the boy is painted with a pitiless degree of realism. Ghirlandaio does not shrink even from depicting his nose in all its disfigurement. The painting in Madrid depicts Giovanna degli Albizzi in a magnificent garment made of gold brocade with tight, slitted silk sleeves. She came from one of the most important Florentine families and in 1486 married Lorenzo Tornabuoni. After her early death Ghirlandaio created two portraits, and it is possible that he was able to produce the cartoon for them while she was still alive. In a fresco in the Tornabuoni Chapel, Giovanna is depicted as an entire figure witnessing the Visitation. The artist used that portrait in his panel painting with a new background, though he unfortunately cut the arms and hands off rather awkwardly. The delightful young woman now stands out, in a clear contrast of light against dark, from the black niche in the background. The reserved beauty of the young woman is fittingly expressed in the formal clarity of the composition. She is wearing a valuable piece of jewelry, comprising a ruby in a gold setting with three silky shining pearls, hanging from her neck by a delicate cord. There is a very similar item of jewelry on the shelf behind her, and this, combined with red coral beads against the black background, gives the work a noble elegance. These beads are part of a rosary, and the section that is hanging straight down emphasizes the vertical line of her back, and also directs our gaze to the prayer book. Between these two \"pious\" objects is a little note alluding to the beautiful soul of the portrayed woman by means of an epigram written by the Roman poet Martial in the first century A.D.: Ars utinam mores animumque effigere posses pulchrior in terris nulla tabella foret. (Art, if only you could portray mores and spirit, there would be no more beautiful picture on earth). This outstanding portrait, one of the most famous of the Quattrocento, makes it clear that portraits of women were one of Ghirlandaio's ideal subjects.",
    "15973": "This vast canvas is part of a series of four commissioned by Louis XIV from Le Brun. It is a cartoon for a tapestry woven at the Gobelins manufactory in Paris. The Alexander the Great series illustrates the conquest of the Persian Empire to the fringes of India. In this composition, Alexander shows magnanimity to the Indian king Porus, whom he has just defeated, by allowing him to keep his kingdom. Porus’s elephants can be seen lying dead in the background. The Battle of the Hydaspes was fought in 326 BC between Alexander the Great and King Porus of the Paurava kingdom on the banks of the river Jhelum (known to the Greeks as Hydaspes) in the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent (modern-day Punjab, Pakistan).",
    "24128": "The resting Mary in the background indicates that the scene is connected with the flight of the Holy Family to Egypt.",
    "2947": "The detail represents the Legacy Hunter (after Fraenger). Lust is punished in the lower right-hand corner, where an amorous sow tries to persuade her companion to sign the legal document in his lap. Perhaps he is a monk, for the sow wears the headdress of a nun. An armoured monster waits near by with an inkwell dangling from his beak.",
    "22810": "From 1I637 to 1644, Post accompanied the retinue of Prince Johan Maurits of Nassau Siegen to Brazil, where he painted the landscape around Pernambuco and on a number of oceanic islands, as well as genre scenes of local life. This Dutch artist's sensitivity to specific situations, landscape and people make Post's Brazilian paintings an invaluable source of information regarding not only the flora and fauna of the region, but also the dress and customs of the time. On his return, Post settled in Haarlem and, like all his Dutch colleagues, he specialized, concentrating especially on tropical and exotic views. In his paintings, we note that, although he supplies details and specific information about this far-off land, the paintings themselves are nevertheless organized along the lines of conventional Dutch landscape paintings. The gaze of the spectator is drawn from the foreground into the depths of the landscape. This distant view with atmospheric changes and a large proportion of sky, are typical features of Dutch painting. Genre-type figures are also included in the compositional structure of these Brazilian scenes.",
    "5569": "A broad cross-section of male society pays homage to its naked idol, who is holding court under a white canopy in a room which looks out over the countryside. The female figure has been stripped of her individuality, and lies defenceless and exposed to the men's gaze; she is subject and object, exploiter and exploited all in one. This painting bears witness to Cézanne's own mixture of fear and longing for the female sex.",
    "8281": "At the corners of the ceiling, figures of the Vices are chained to strongly projecting rocks. Sloth is a handsome young man, naked and sleeping placidly. Lust appears in the form of a laughing faun. Above the Vices are four rosy-toned monochrome oculi with putti engaged in virtuous activities.",
    "2078": "The circular arrangement of figures is indebted to Rogier van Weyden. Notable is the landscape in the background, a fantastical view of the city of Jerusalem, with a plethora of oriental domes, flat roofs and the dominant bulb atop the spherical building in the centre.",
    "28029": "This scene is on the wall of the room of Virgil. During the destruction of Troy, Aeneas flees the city, at the order of the gods, to establish a new city in Italy. A storm drives him to the shores of Carthage. Accompanied by Achates, he makes his way to Dido, the queen of Carthage. His mother Venus appears to him along the way and carries the two men, enveloped in a cloud, unscathed to Carthage. Aeneas and Achates stand on the left of the picture, while Venus, accompanied by Amor, hovers above them to the right, and is in the act of transporting them on a cloud. Ships lie at anchor in the background.",
    "2952": "The picture shows a detail of the right wing which represents the Musicians' Level (after Fraenger). In the Hell the normal relationships of the world are turned upside down. This is dramatically conveyed in the innocuous everyday objects which have swollen to monstrous proportions and serve as instruments of torture. One nude figure is attached by devils to the neck of a lute; another is helplessly entangled in the strings of a harp. Several huge musical instruments figure prominently in Bosch's conception of hell. They are shaped similarly to the ones used at that time, but their positioning is unrealistic (for example, a harp grows out of a lute). Their relationship to each other bears strongly fanciful elements, and they have been adapted in form. What is more, the use of these instruments is wholly fantastic. There is a human figure stretched across the strings of a harp; another writhes around the neck of a flute, intertwined with a snake; a third peers out of a drum equipped with bird-like feet, the next one plays triangle while reaching out from a hurdy-gurdy, and even the smoking trumpet displays an outstretched human arm. It is difficult to conceive that the group of damned souls would sing a hymn from the musical score fixed to the reverse of the reclining figure in front of them - although this has been proposed by some scholars. The ensemble, lead by an infernal monster, could more likely be a parody.",
    "31732": "The detail of the left panel shows the baptism, the confirmation and the confession (penance). The sacrament of confirmation can be administered only by a bishop and here it is being performed by the donor, Jean Chevrot himself. Several heads, obviously also portraits, were executed on small pieces of metallic foil or parchment, then stuck to the picture; they are, however, original. Possibly these portraits were done somewhere else, then sent to the Brussels workshop to be added to the altarpiece.",
    "5838": "The elegant painted architecture is a continuation of the real structure of the panel. The Baptist, in the centre, emphasizes the vertical axis around which the whole scene is organized, with pair of saints arranged symmetrically at the sides.",
    "6326": "Copley was America's foremost painter of the 18th century. This portrait, painted just before he left Boston for England, represents Copley at the height of his power and exhibits the intensive realism that was the principal characteristic of his work at that time. Hannah Fayerweather Winthrop was an articulate and intelligent colonist, the wife of America's first prominent astronomer, a professor at Harvard University. Copley has rendered the varying textures of her muslin cap, silk dress, and lace cuffs with remarkable precision; in painting the table surface upon which she rests her hands, he demonstrated a degree of technical competence equalled by few of his contemporaries.",
    "8493": "This panel is on the front predella of the Maestà. The Massacre of the Innocents is flanked by the standing images of Prophets Malachi and Jeremiah. The scene of the Massacre of the Innocents (which also portrays Herod in the act of ordering the slaughter) is fully explained in the scroll of the prophet Jeremiah, where one can read: \"Vox in Rama audita est, ploratus et ululatus multus: Rachel plorans filios suos\" (Jeremiah 31, 15: A cry is heard in Rama, a groaning and bitter lamentation: Rachel is weeping for her sons). The despair of the weeping mothers who form an animated group is dramatically conveyed; they are in contrast to the rhythmic, unhurried gestures of the two soldiers who continue the destruction unmoved.",
    "6593": "The Salone dei Mesi (Room of Months) in the Palazzo Schifanoia, one of the masterpieces of Italian palace architecture, was decorated with a series of allegorical frescoes symbolizing the months. The length of the room  is 24 m, the width 11 m and the height 7,5 m. The frescoes are attributed to Cosme Tura, Francesco del Cossa, Baldassare d'Este and Ercole de' Roberti. On the southern wall January and February, on the eastern wall March, April and May, on the north wall June, July, August and September, on the west wall October, November and December were represented. Due to negligence it was in a very bad state already in the 18th century. Today there remained only fragments of the frescoes on the southern and western walls, while those on the eastern wall and most on the northern are in relatively good condition. This means that the visitor can view the surviving allegories of seven months (March, April, May, June July, August and September). In all allegories the episodes are arranged in a three-tiered, frieze-like manner; in the upper sphere, the sphere of mythology, each month and its planet are paralleled by their ancient divinity in a triumphal procession. The middle layer shows the signs of the zodiac, while below are rendered the courtly events appropriate to the particular time of year. In the allegory of March the Triumph of Minerva is represented on the upper layer. In the centre of it there is the goddess, on the left a group of poets and magistrates, on the right women with symbols of feminine labour. The middle layer represents the zodiac sign Aries, while the lower layer depicts a hunting scene.",
    "29215": "Not long after the Monument to Sir John Hawkwood, the Opera del Duomo commissioned from Paolo the designs for three stained-glass windows for the oculi of the drum of the dome, as well as the decoration for the clockface on the inner façade of the Cathedral. Uccello designed the four male heads, usually called prophets, looking out from four roundels designed in perfect perspective. The four Prophets were finished on 22 February 1443 and in them, as in the cartoons for the stained-glass windows, we find quite clearly the influence of Ghiberti and Donatello.",
    "26484": "This work is a sketch for a monumental work by Silvestre measuring 291 x 201 cm. The full-scale version is described at length in an inscription in French by the artist, which can equally well be applied to the present sketch:  \"What one sees in this picture, a representation of Christ on the cross formed from clouds against a blue sky, was witnessed in the heavens next to the setting sun in the vineyards at Rotschberg at a quarter past six in the evening on 19 May 1734. The cross was perfectly formed for a quarter of an hour. Those present were: / M. L'Abbe Pirenne. C. [Catholic] / The younger M. Bildstein and his valet. L. [Lutheran] / M. Favrier. C. / Mme Embry. C. / The widow Richter. L. / The vine-tenders and the gardener. L. / Mme Sylvestre and her two daughters. C. / and myself, Louis Sylvestre, who painted what can be seen here. The persons here mentioned, of whom the majority saw me paint the work, confirm that this is as true a resemblance as art can render of something so admirable and extraordinary.\" The picture differs fundamentally from all of Louis de Silvestre's other works. It strikes the viewer as disturbingly modern, and seems to be a mystery both in compositional terms and as regards the intensity of the colours. Only with an explanation of why the painting was done, as is related in the inscription on the large painting, and the knowledge that the artist was inspired to paint the picture by the actual sight of such a cloud formation, can the viewer understand why the work seems to flaunt all artistic convention.",
    "12706": "She is about 20 years old and is profiting from the emancipation of women cautiously proceeding in Goya's day. Her face is no longer concealed by a veil, and she looks self-confidently out at the viewer.",
    "12082": "Hugo van der Goes painted this work in the closing years of his life, presumably a decade after the Monforte Altarpiece, after he had retired in 1478 into a monastery near Brussels as a lay-brother. The peculiar flatness of the faces and the contrived nature of the whole composition are symptomatic of his later period, in which transitory motifs also become prominent. Although this panel may lack the cohesion of the Monforte Altarpiece, one can still detect in it - particularly in the undignified intrusion of the shepherds - a bold and final attempt by a great artist, who was close to death, to break with accepted tradition in painting and strike out along a new path. The Virgin and Joseph are kneeling - almost symmetrically placed - on either side of the crib which, viewed end-on, adds depth to the scene. Angels are crowding round behind the crib in order to be near the Child. Through an opening in the wall in the right background one has a glimpse of the shepherds in the fields, receiving the glad news. On the left side of the picture, two of them rush in, baring their heads as they enter. The entire scene is revealed to the observer by two prophets in the foreground, who draw the curtains back and create the illusion of 'unveiling' it. The unusually wide yet shallow format of the picture has given rise to the suggestion that it may have been originally designed as a predella. But such an assumption would presuppose an altar of enormous dimensions, the existence of which could not have remained completely unknown. Besides, there is no evidence of predellas in Netherlandish painting, so for the time being the artist's purpose must remain a matter of conjecture. In his Adoration of the Shepherds the painter created something that is far removed from his earlier work, the Monforte Altarpiece. There the composure and dignity of the kings and the natural simplicity of their bearing contrast sharply with the commotion and crowding of the later work, which gives the impression of being somewhat contrived. There is no doubt that the format prescribed by the patron presented the painter with problems of form which were not easy to solve.",
    "2381": "This landscape depicts the Augustan bridge on the Nera river, and the Nera river valley in the region of Terni near the town of Narni in Italy. The area was a popular destination for landscape painters in the eighteenth century. This painting was one of four pictures all with the same dimensions which were painted expressly for the agent Antoine-Joseph Sarazin.",
    "16138": "A young woman, cooling herself with a damp handkerchief, is surprised by an older man wearing heavy, fur-lined clothes. He seems to be asking her a question, sometimes interpreted as a proposal, but the painting's precise subject remains unclear. Lemoyne set up distinct contrasts of texture, colour, and light, which could be appreciated from a distance. The elongated shape and slight forward tilt of the figures suggest that the painting was intended to be viewed from below, perhaps originally installed over a door in a domestic interior.",
    "24660": "The artist Marietta Robusti, Jacopo Tintoretto's favourite daughter, pupil, and assistant, aged about 16 when she painted this portrait, subliminally reveals the character of her sitter, the young art dealer Ottavio Strada (1550-1607). With an expression of assumed innocence, he greedily accepts the gold and silver coins poured into his hand from a cornucopia by a female allegorical figure. He anxiously clutches a small, apparently classical statue he has just acquired, index ringer insinuated significantly between its legs. It is not surprising that the life-size statue of Venus - perhaps a self-portrait of the young painter herself - is turning away as if in distaste.",
    "27628": "This pastoral genre piece depicts a shepherd and a shepherdess and their flock along a path in an extensive Arcadian landscape.",
    "2063": "This still-life depicts a vase of roses and tulips, a ham on a pewter plate, glassware, a lobster and fruit on a ledge.",
    "8294": "This painting was probably commissioned by Alfonso d'Este and may allude to his love affair with the lady-in-waiting Laura Dianti, after the death of his wife, Lucrezia Borgia, in 1519. The painting was inspired by the story of Apollo and Daphne in Ovid's Metamorphoses: Apollo is singing his love for Daphne and interrupts his performance at the moment when the nymph is transformed into a laurel tree (allusion to Laura) in the landscape on the left. Apollo accompanies his song on a viola da braccio, the instrument played by Duke Alfonso.",
    "10953": "Ghirlandaio incorporated portraits of his contemporaries in many biblical scenes. It is probably for precisely that reason that he was so popular among the rich Florentines, who were particularly keen on self portrayal. This makes it all the more astonishing that so few secular portraits by Ghirlandaio have survived. There are two paintings dating from about 1490, in the Paris Musée du Louvre and in Madrid, that are masterpieces of his art and yet fundamentally different: Giovanna Tornabuoni is idealized to the extent of becoming an \"icon\" of beauty for young Florentine girls, while the old man with the boy is painted with a pitiless degree of realism. Ghirlandaio does not shrink even from depicting his nose in all its disfigurement. In his double portrait in the Musée du Louvre, the artist succeeds not only in portraying the two figures with great tenderness, but also in conveying the deep affection between them. The boy is gently snuggling up to the old man. Their eyes meet on a diagonal: this balances the composition, and also excludes the observer from the intimate scene. The boy is looking upwards along the old man's outline, which means that he is actually looking directly at the enormous nose projecting towards him. The contrast makes the little boy's snub nose, and the way his mouth is opened in astonishment, appear all the more childlike. The old man is sitting in the corner of a room in front of an open window The delicacy of the beautiful view of the landscape is, so to speak, a commentary on the profound companionability of the two generations. A soft light is falling an the faces through the window, and the old man is lit from the right and the boy from above. As the lit halves of their faces are turned towards each other, and the same bright red is used for the garments and cap, producing a richness that contrasts with the gray wall behind, the two figures seem to merge to form one. The picture is entirely composed with their unity in mind. Flemish influences are unmistakable in both the choice of the corner of the room and the landscape, bringing to mind both Dirck Bouts' Portrait of a Man in London dating from 1462 and several portraits by Petrus Christus. The identity of the sitters is no longer known, it cannot be stated with certainty whether they are indeed, as is supposed, grandfather and grandson. The man's nose, disfigured by a skin disease called rhinophyma, has in recent years led to the writing of several medical essays. Scratches in the paint layer disfigured it even further. This damage was removed by restoration work carried out in 1996.",
    "1192": "This painting illustrates a tale (the first tale on the fourth day) from Giovanni Boccaccio's The Decameron. Tancredi, Prince of Salerno and father of Ghismonda, slays his daughter's lover, Guiscardo, and sends her his heart in a golden cup. Ghismonda, the daughter, pours upon it a poisonous distillation, which she drinks and dies.",
    "30791": "This painting came from the Scuola dei Mercanti in Venice, where it had hung above the door in the 'sala dell albergo,' flanked by grisaille personifications called Charity and Faith. The Scuola's emblem - a hand blessing the Cross - rests just below the apex of the midground tympanum, ,while in the foreground, on either side, the arms of the donor families adorn the bases of two columns.",
    "13585": "The detail represents St Dominic, holding lilies in his hand, looking up to the Virgin.",
    "25232": "The source of the subject is Ovid's Metamorphoses. The love affairs of gods never bode well for mortals; there were times when they caused nothing but suffering even for some of the nymphs. Io, the beautiful daughter of the river god Inachus, fell prey to the passion of Jupiter, who - in order to hide her from his jealous wife - turned the girl into a cow. The wily Juno talked her husband into giving her the fine-looking animal and had the hundred-eyed Argus guard it. Jupiter gave Mercury the task of killing the wicked guard. The inventive god (the Greeks called him \"Hermes dolios\", the schemer) approached the meadows, herding some goats which he had stolen along the way, and played songs on his pipe. The guard was charmed by the new and masterful melodies. Mercury watches intently as Argus is mesmerized by the sound of the flute, and he is already reaching for the weapon with which he will behead the sleepy guardian. Rubens depicted a fipple flute in place of a Pan-pipe. From the aulos used at feasts of Antiquity and the Roman tibia through the medieval bagpipes and Renaissance-Baroque horns and musettes, all the way to the saxophone of our times, every wind instrument was attributed with having a dangerous mesmerizing power.",
    "28895": "Lautrec often visited the Moulin de la Galette and painted a number of pictures there. The venue was popular both with the poorer sections of Montmartre and with the artists and bohemians. Markedly erotic and therefore offensive to respectable society were the evening dances, which brought out the police - visible in the right-hand background of the picture. In the right foreground is the picture's original owner, the landscape painter and friend of Lautrec, Joseph Albert (c. 1865-1928).",
    "7021": "Since both Diana and Apollo are connected with hunting, this painting may well belong to this subject area, one which was in high favour in courtly circles. The arms and the deer would also fit this category.",
    "32294": "The picture shows the fresco on the ceiling of the choir in the Catholic parish and pilgrimage church of Sts. Peter and Paul in Oberelchingen (Bayern). It depicts the The Presentation of Christ in the Temple.",
    "9511": "A picture shows the central predella panel with scene from the story of St Mary Magdalene.",
    "8141": "The story of how this festive picture came to be painted is very unusual. Cardinal Aldobrandini commissioned it as a sequel to Titian's Bacchanals which he had recently added to his collection. The comparison with such an illustrious model brought out the best in Domenichino, especially his ability to handle light, and spurred him to take a fresh approach. Unlike Titian, the Emilian painter was willing to avoid explosive use of colour and movement. Instead he seemed content to concentrate on a serene contemplation of the beauty of girls, animals, and the countryside. In his Diana Domenichino revived antique themes and the depiction of nymphs. The subject derives from Virgil's Aeneid (V, 485) where warriors are described competing in an archery contest and shooting a tree with their first arrow, a ribbon with their second and a falling bird with their third. It was probably Mons. Giovanni Battista Agucchi, major theorist and adviser on iconography at the time, who suggested transposing the subject matter into the realm of the nymphs led by Diana. The archery theme was adopted as a metaphor for shrewd arguments that hit the mark, which was topical at the time, as the dedication of the 'Dicerie sacre' by the poet Giovan Battista Marino to Pope Paul V indicates. In capturing nature in clear compositions that predominate over the use of colour, Domenichino nonetheless adopts Venetian tones now and then in the flowing draperies, and there are extraordinary passages from green to yellow, white to blue and various shades of purple. But what opens up a new chapter in the rendering of atmosphere are his gradual and calculated changes in tone towards the pale blue mountains by using increasingly subtle glazings, which indicate a new interest in Leonardo's theories on aerial perspective (studied and taught by the Theatine monk Matteo Zaccòlini, who taught Domenichino perspective in the 1620s).",
    "32001": "The painting shows the church of Santi Marcellino e Pietro, from the Vigna Ciccolini, with the Palazzo Laterano, the church of San Giovanni in Laterano, the Ospedale di San Giovanni and ruins of the Claudian Aqueduct beyond. The view is taken from a rare viewpoint, never repeated by the artist. Van Wittel reproduces the topography in characteristically accurate detail.",
    "14526": "Henry VIII (1491-1547), king of England (1509-47), who presided over the beginnings of the English Renaissance and the English Reformation. His six wives were, successively, Catherine of Aragon (the mother of the future queen Mary I), Anne Boleyn (the mother of the future queen Elizabeth I), Jane Seymour (the mother of Henry's successor, Edward VI), Anne of Cleves, Catherine Howard, and Catherine Parr. This portrait is the only surviving individual portrait of Henry that Holbein himself painted. In terms of features, it corresponds largely to the figure in the Whitehall cartoon. Both portraits are likely to have been based on a single, now lost portrait study by Holbein. However, as a consequence of the small format of the panel painting, the heavy shoulder chain that the king wears in the monumental portrait is omitted here, and his sleeves are embroidered with a very delicate gold thread. This is the quintessential image of the overbearing and tyrannous monarch, from the year the dissolution of the monasteries (and the consequent appropriation of their wealth for the Crown and its servants) was instigated. Holbein depicts the King at `face value', without flattery, emphasizing the small, humourless eyes and mouth, the curiously flat cheeks and chin. Henry's bulky and capricious authority haunts the work despite its small size. Its condensation of magnificence run riot here takes the form of real gold used in the chain, jewellery and collar. The portrait is undoubtedly a tour de force; after its execution, Holbein's position at the court seems to have been secure, and he was used as a painter-ambassador when the King's marital plans unraveled in the late 1530s. Only his misleading portrayal of Anne of Cleves would check his popularity. The subsequent spawning of similar but less effective portraits of the king by Holbein's followers has tended to obscure the compelling mixture of simplicity and realism displayed in this design - the tilt and curve of the black and white hat, the fearful symmetry of the jewelled jacket and the modelling of the hands: imitators often managed either simplicity or realism but never both.",
    "612": "The detail shows the head of St Matthew from the right panel.",
    "30793": "An engraved copy dated 1582 by Agostino Carracci is the first documentary evidence of this picture, which was intended for the church of SS. Giovanni e Paolo in Venice. Apart from Christ, it shows only Mary and an angel, against a dark background. The figural composition is notable for its severe closeness of forms, with the drama lying in the interplay of the expressive heads. The innovative quality of the devotional picture is underlined by the existence of several weaker replicas and variants carried out at a later date by Benedetto Caliari and colleagues from the workshop. The painting is the best version of the surviving three- and four-figure paintings depicting the Lamentation of Christ. Recent X-ray investigations revealed a second angel at the left side of Mary.",
    "6592": "This view of the Salone dei Mesi in the Palazzo Schifanoia shows, from the left to the right, frescoes of the months of September, August, July, June, May, April, and May, respectively. The decoration was commissioned by Borso d'Este. The name Borso gave to this pleasure palace means \"away with boredom.\"",
    "18807": "Master Theoderic, a highly original artist, broke free of the styles that were dominated by Italian, Austrian and French art and tried to develop his own distinctive style. Painted between 1360 and 1365, the 30 icon-like portraits of the saints which decorate the Chapel of the Cross at Karlstein Castle are one of the most impressive results of these efforts. The robust features of the individual saints are impressively depicted. Three-dimensional objects have been added, such as carved coats-of-arms, mounted in the manner of collages on the surface of the paintings. Ornamented with discs of gilded Venetian glass and strips of marble encrusted with semiprecious stones, the chapel seems like a Byzantine treasure chamber. It is possible that this room and the adjacent 'privatorium' were intended by the Emperor to create a vision of his future Eastern empire.",
    "27860": "The detail shows the angel of Fame, sounding a trumpet and Prudence, with a serpent wound around her arm and reflecting upon her image in a mirror held up by a putto. To the right, Evil falls from the sky - a horrible old woman terrified by the appearance of Glory.",
    "32067": "In this painting a hawking party with horsemen, falconers and their hounds in a landscape is depicted.",
    "7926": "Already in 1840 Louis-Philippe had consented to the return of Napoleon's body for a state burial in Les Invalides, thus officially incorporating him into French history. But with this continuing process of rehabilitation came a fresh appreciation of the great man's vulnerable humanity. In 1848 Louis-Philippe's favourite history painter, Paul Delaroche, painted his own account of Napoleon's Saint Bernard crossing. Tired but determined, the guided mule plods on, a bedraggled Napoleon on its back. The contrast with Jacques-Louis David's artifice is extreme, but Delaroche's position was far from hostile. He was fascinated by Napoleon, to whom he bore a strong resemblance, and whose successes and reversals he compared to his own. In his view, the icon would not lose by being revealed as a credible man.",
    "27902": "This canvas was painted for the altar of the little chapel in Venice's Palazzo Labia. A novel conception of the traditional 'Sacred Conversation,\" the scene occurs outside a building, in a rising series of diagonals that endow the picture with an illusory space far greater than its limited dimensions might seem to allow. In the foreground, by contrast, hovers the dark, austere figure of St Gaetano, immersed in a diffuse and uncertain light.",
    "8985": "The detail shows the scene Daniel in the Lions' Den (after the recent restoration).",
    "1946": "This photo shows Bellini's altarpiece as seen today in the San Zaccaria church. It is completely surrounded by other oil on canvas paintings of various dates. The overall decoration of Venetian church interiors is similar to the manner in which churches in Tuscany and Rome were filled with frescoes.",
    "18935": "Mednyánszky is one of the most interesting and puzzling characters in Hungarian painting. He cannot be placed in any of the fashionable trends of his time, nor does he belong to any particular school. He was attracted by two subjects - the cycle of nature and the world of social outcasts. \"Since my very early youth, observing nature has been my main occupation, the content of my life\", he wrote in his diary. Mistry hills, lakes, moonlit forests end the endless scenery of the plain are transposed into pictures in warm greys and browns. This early painting, \"Marshland\", is one of the most beautiful of his oeuvre. The dejected walking figures in the rainy landscape are surrounded by pearly shimmering wetness.",
    "18461": "In this chef d'oeuvre of the painter the Madonna is displayed on the central panel of the altarpiece, wearing a blue-green robe and a wide-spreading crimson mantle. Backed by the rainbow disk of the sun, she is seated on a throne, the crescent moon beneath her feet and the Infant Jesus on her lap. Two white-robed angels floating above her place a crown on her head. She is flanked on both sides by galaxies of angels in yellow and green; the two at the foot of the picture hold a scroll with the first verse of Chapter 20 of the Revelations of St John inscribed in Latin. The figures are ranged in symmetrical and equal masses around the Madonna, who acts as the central magnet of the composition. The accumulation of colours vibrating in the corona gives the air of a third dimension to the picture.",
    "11934": "François-René de Chateaubriand (1768-3848) was a French author, a representative of the reaction against the ideas of the French Revolution, and the most conspicuous figure in French literature during the First Empire. There is an air of intense introspection in the portrait that Anne-Louis Girodet painted of him in 1809, meditating on the ruins of Rome. In the still Italian air, Chateaubriand's hair is windswept (Napoleon mischievously said the portrait looked like that of a conspirator who had come down a chimney), hinting at the storms and passions that had lashed his best-known creation. (Chateaubriand wrote René, a fictional self-portrait in 1802 in London.)",
    "8207": "The artist named himself after his master, a certain Michelino. He had his painterly training under Fra Angelico whose assistant he also became. His style is similar to that of Filippo Lippi and Pesellino. In this painting the three kingdoms are represented: the Purgatory in the centre background, the Hell at left, and the heavenly City at right. This painting is especially interesting because it shows us, apart from scenes of the Divine Comedy, a view of Florence in 1465, a Florence such as Dante himself could not have seen in his time.",
    "8965": "The picture shows the wall paintings from the cupola of the chapel apse of one of the buildings in the monastery complex at Bawit. Bawit is the site on the west bank of the River Nile, c. 16 km west of Daryut in the province of Asyut, Egypt. A large monastery with rich sculptural and painted decoration originally lay in the desert 1 km to the west. According to tradition it was founded by the monk Apollo in the late 4th century AD and was inhabited until the late 12th century. The monastery consisted of an enclosed nucleus with other buildings outside the walls, although it is not known how much of the site was occupied at any given time. Within the enclosed area were two churches. Although some painted decoration was employed in the churches, most occurred on the plastered walls of the monastery's other mud-brick buildings, including geometric and foliate designs, hunting scenes and pagan figures, such as Eros and Orpheus. Most of the paintings, however, are Christian in content, often depicting monks and warrior-saints. Painted representations of Old Testament themes, including scenes from the Life of David, and scenes incorporating Christ and the Virgin survive from the ground-floor chapels of several of the two-storey buildings. The cupolas of the chapel apses commonly show the enthroned Christ in the upper register, while the lower register usually has the Virgin, sometimes holding the Child, accompanied by Apostles, monks or archangels. The present picture shos an example. Ancient Egyptian, Hellenistic, Late Antique, early Byzantine and Sasanian influences can all be detected in the paintings. Although their dates of production remain uncertain, most can probably be attributed to the period between the 6th and 8th centuries AD.",
    "11774": "A very unusual representation of the sacramental episode that embarrasses and perturbs the apostles. Christ appears to be irritated by their failure to understand. The only relaxed figure is the nameless, curly-locked donor, who is already preparing the towel to dry Peter's feet.",
    "24215": "When Renoir first visited Venice in 1881, he was drawn to one of its most famous sights: the façade of the Doge's Palace across from the island of San Giorgio Maggiore. This view was very popular with artists; Renoir joked that \"there were at least six of us queuing up to paint it.\" The buildings are painted with considerable accuracy, the soft pinks and creams of their sunlit walls contrasting with the rich blue of the sky and reflecting in the undulating waters of the canal.",
    "1897": "The detail shows the landscape at the right side of the painting.",
    "30197": "In this scene on the end wall of the room, a donkey that has been starved for days kneels kneels down before the Host rather than eating the food offered  it. The animal's owner, who had doubted that the Eucharist was holy, is converted from his lack of faith.",
    "13764": "Johan van Haensbergen is especially known for his classicistic and mythological paintings, situated in extensive Italianised landscapes. Stylistically these works are closely related to the works of his master Cornelis van Poelenburgh. In this mature work of the artist, in the left of the composition the wine god Bacchus is depicted, adorned with a crown of wine leaves and laying on a red robe. He embraces a nymph, whose blond hair is decorated with ribbons and minute flowers.",
    "17036": "This panel was probably a processional cross: mounted on a long pole it was carried in processions around the church. The elaborate, cruciform picture field is formed of an elongated rectangular panel with five lobed extensions at the top and sides and an antependium with attached acanthus decoration. Most of the height of the painting is filled by the cross and the body of Christ, with blood running from his wounds down the shaft of the cross and spreading in rivulets over the rocky landscape below. At the foot of the cross kneel two figures in adoration of the crucified Christ: at the right is St Mary Magdalen in a long red robe, and at the left is a hermit, wearing a coarse brown tunic torn at the shoulder. Below them, emerging from a crevice in the rocky ground beneath the foot of the cross, is a bust-length figure of King David with a halo and a crown. The attribution to Lorenzo Monaco is not universally acknowledged among scholars.",
    "11137": "The picture shows one of the ends of the ceiling in the Galleria Riccardiana (above the entrance) depicting Pallas Athena Handing Ingegno the Golden Key to Recognition of Veritas. Assisted by Mercury, the god of commerce and eloquence, Pallas Athena is presenting a gold key to a personification of Ingegno, identified by an eagle helmet. This key will allow him to recognize Veritas, who is kneeling next to him. At the same time, the key can be taken as a reference to the owner of the palace, whose coat of arms bore a key. On the left Athena is presenting a hammer to two women identified as Industria and Artificium by the tools and utensils lying on the ground and by a swarm of bees. Seated on a rock is a youthful Amphion (or Orpheus), whose lute-playing casts a spell on the denizens of the air and the Roman she-wolf.",
    "102": "In the 16th and 17th centuries it was quite common for theologians to see a slaughtered animal as symbolizing the death of a believer. Allusions to the 'weak flesh' (cf. Matthew 16:41) may well have been associated with Aertsen's Butcher's Stall where - like on his fruit and vegetable stalls - a seemingly infinite abundance of meat has been spread out. In this picture, the viewer's senses are immediately assaulted by the profusion of life-size comestibles. Amid fowls, sausages, beef, pork, fish, butter, cheese and pretzel, the eye of a flayed ox's head disconcertingly seems to watch the viewer. Each object is a masterful still-life. Like Lucas van Leyden and some other Netherlandish artists, Aertsen inverted the traditional foreground-subject relationship; his narrative occurs in the background. Almost unnoticed at first, the stall permits glimpses of a tavern on the right and a landscape behind. The ground around the inn is covered with oyster and mussel shells, which in some context - as here - allude to their consumption as an aphrodisiac. Among the tavern's revellers is a prostitute with a possible customer. Meanwhile, groups of people, dressed in contemporary Netherlandish attire, walk through the countryside towards the church visible at the far left. Only the mother riding the donkey stops to give alms to the poor. She is the Virgin Mary. Led by Joseph, she and her son are journeying to Egypt, to escape Herod. This is a very different presentation than the standard flight into Egypt since no idols fall, no miracles occur, no angels or servants direct the way. Although beset by their own troubles, the Holy Family shares what they have with the less fortunate. No halos signal their divinity, rather, Aertsen accented their humanity to construct a moral about daily personal decisions. His pilgrimage of life offers a choice between a materialistic and morally questionable existence on the one hand and the spiritual path of the Holy Family on the other. Aertsen and Joachim Beuckelaer, his nephew and pupil, popularized peasant and market scenes such as this, which typically contain half-hidden moralizations and religious themes. Through their impetus in Antwerp and Amsterdam, where they painted, peasant and market scenes evolved into a separate artistic specialization around the mid-sixteenth century.",
    "27619": "In a large, open, barn-like structure, which serves as a guardroom, groups of monkeys wearing soldiers' uniforms are grouped around tables playing cards and back-gammon. Pictures of monkeys had been popular from the sixteenth-century and it was Teniers who developed the theme in the seventeenth-century. The primary role of the monkey in visual and literary sources of the sixteenth-century was to represent the irrational and foolish side of man's nature, but monkeys also were symbols of sinfulness and seen as devils.",
    "6434": "The Barbizon School played an outstanding role in the history of modern landscape painting. This was a group of young artists who in the 1830s and 40s sought the beauties of the unsullied landscape, a rural idyll, the un dramatic yet inspirited 'paysage intime' in the forest of Fontainebleau. They finally settled in the village of Barbizon, where they were occasionally joined by Camille Corot, the major artist of the group. Corot's works embody the essence of a landscape painting of airily rendered, basically ordinary scenes populated now and then with mythological figures. These were alternative images to an economically and touristically exploited nature. Inspiration came from seventeenth-century Dutch landscapes and those of the Englishman John Constable, but especially from the new turn to open-air painting and its capturing of atmospheric, evanescent effects. This notwithstanding, Corot generally finished his works in the studio. Using a limited range of colour, especially earthy greens, a silvery gray, ocher and their gradations, contrasted with a bright sky, Corot engendered a lovely, melodious harmony that clothed nature in a Late Romantic, magical mood. In The Solitude, the artist has done without all mythological trappings. A female figure, reclining and as if lost in thought, is sufficient to lend this, one of the Barbizon master's most elegiac landscapes, an incomparable mood of loneliness and yearning.",
    "26823": "Møn is an island in south-eastern Denmark. It is one of Denmark's most popular destinations for tourists with its white chalk cliffs,   Sødring was among the few Danish artists of his period to look to Romantic landscape painting for inspiration, and this painting is radically different from the majority of paintings created in Denmark around 1830, first and foremost because it is a nocturnal scene, but also because of the way in which the motif has been treated. The artist has chosen to view the Summer Spire against a dramatic night sky where the moon breaks through the clouds and makes the chalk cliffs appear luminously white against the dark surroundings. Besides the influence of the Norwegian painter Johan Christian Dahl, at an early stage Sødring became interested in the German landscape painter Caspar David Friedrich's work and artistic devices. Several features of the Summer Spire scene are very reminiscent of the paintings by the German artist.",
    "3347": "This canvas was painted for Jeanne Antoinette Poisson, marquise de Pompadour (1721-1764), mistress of Louis XV. It was installed in the bathroom in the Château de Bellevue, outside Paris. Its more well known companion piece The Toilet of Venus is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. The two paintings are among Boucher's most poetic and graceful images of one of his favourite subjects. The focus of the composition of the Bath of Venus is the youthful and beautiful Venus, the soft contours of her figure highlighted against the rich greens and blues of the background. A fine study in red and white chalks, drawn from a live model in the studio, demonstrates the care Boucher took in working out the pose. The youthful goddess is one in a long line of Boucher's female nudes. Although Boucher made life studies for each of these figures, their ultimate source is one of the most ravishing of all Rococo nudes, The Bather, painted by Boucher's teacher, François Lemoyne, exhibited at the Salon of 1725.",
    "23597": "Raphael's pictorial narrative in the Loggia di Psiche begins in the spandrels of the short side on the left as one enters and continues along the spandrels to the right to the second short side and then along the entrance side. These triangular surfaces represented a problematic format for artists. Raphael solved this challenge in ever new and surprising ways, causing the form of the painting's support and the composition of its figures to interact in particularly fortuitous and varied manners. In the spandrel of the right-hand short wall Mercury appeals for Psyche to be found. His body expands across the entire surface of the spandrel into the corners and flies out toward the viewer.",
    "23716": "This painting reflects the artist's fascination with Granada's Alhambra Palace, as well as his morbid predilection (here using a historical pretext, taken to an extreme) for severed heads. The crimson blood splashed on the steps, the decapitated body, and the severed head itself impressed an enthusiastic Théophile Gautier with their realism, which he imagined to have been studied at first hand in Morocco.",
    "25509": "In this peaceful river scene. various vessels float along a river whose blue surface is slightly rippled by a gentle breeze. Beyond the bank at right rises the tower of Liesvelt Castle - a fortress that sat along the bank of the Lek River in South Holland until it was demolished in 1740. It appears Ruysdael appreciated the picturesque qualities of this structure, for it recurs in a number of his other imagined river scenes",
    "9911": "The Sienese Francesco di Giorgio was a dominant painter, sculptor, and engineer of his generation in his native city. Additionally he was a leading architect and designer of castles and fortifications, so it is understandable why there are few paintings by his hand. Like his Florentine and Umbrian contemporaries, he was a student of perspective, which is imaginatively employed in the platform upon which Christ is crowning His eternally young mother. This large and crowded altarpiece was Francesco di Giorgio's most ambitious undertaking in his work as a painter. About 40 characters, each one visually identifiable thank to the artist's careful graphic research, crowd into the main scene. Christ is crowning the Virgin on a strange podium which is held up by angels. Above them, Francesco uses steep perspective to include a whirlwind image of God the Father. The altarpiece depicting the Coronation of the Virgin was painted for the Chapel of Sts Sebastian and Catherine of Siena at Monte Oliveto, hence the prominence of those two in the lowest zone of the picture. Considering Francesco di Giorgio's activity as an architect, it is surprising that there is so little convincing structure to the composition and that the spatial relationships are so difficult to decipher. No single, consistent optimal point of sight where the perspective operates effectively seems to have been planned. As a result, while one might expect to see the two kneeling saints from above or the central group of Christ and Mary from below, they are all seen almost straight on. Christ, the dominant image on the central axis, is in the act of crowning the kneeling and proportionally somewhat smaller Mary. His left arm, thrust across the body, forms a wedge below the nearly diamond-shaped head. A swirling God the Father, surrounded by zodiacal signs and angels, supervises the uppermost zone. Mary and Christ rest upon a flat cloud bank shown in sharp foreshortening (although the figures themselves are not foreshortened). On a ledge in the same zone, seated figures - including St John the Baptist cross-legged on the left and crowned King David holding his lyre on the right - and handsome angels imply a semicircular distribution in space, a compositional innovation that will find reverberations in the following decades. Along the sides, hosts of saints are piled up in the narrow vertical strips, recalling a Sienese tradition that goes as far back as Duccio di Buoninsegna's Maestà of the early Trecento. The spaces are hard to reconstruct; the surfaces are overcrowded; the colour strong although unnatural. Francesco had his artistic and cultural roots in Siena. But just as Sassetta experienced outside, non-Sienese influences, so too did Francesco di Giorgio. His personal style was modified and molded by impulses from two North Italian painters active in Siena, Girolamo da Cremona and Liberale da Verona, both of whom reflected Mantegna's innovative formal style. In addition, Francesco di Giorgio was keenly aware of what was unfolding in nearby Florence. Critics often point out the influence of Filippo Lippi and of Verrocchio, as well as that of the Pollaiuolo shop. Donatello and Ghiberti had left works in Siena which are also reflected by Francesco di Giorgio. The twisting, winged, nude putti of the Coronation, who help support the cloud bank, are modifications of Donatello's tiny angels in the Sienese Baptistery. Francesco di Giorgio constantly disregards the structure of figures or their anatomy. Bodies are usually heavy, arbitrary, and abstract, without special attention to the light sources; for example, the St Dorothy standing on the extreme right edge of the picture with the flowers gathered in her garment. Her long face, accentuated by a strong chin and a wide-eyed expression, is curiously personalized, suggesting deep intensity and even an affliction, often found in Francesco's somewhat melancholy vision. Like Botticelli, his world consists more of fantasy and imagination than of a demanding observation of nature. In the Coronation of the Virgin the unity of the picture is sacrificed to an abundance of detail.",
    "5660": "This painting shows the bust length portrait of an unidentified man. Philippe de Champaigne was active at the French court and many of the leading figures of the day, among them Cardinal Richelieu, sat to him.",
    "4325": "All paintings currently attributed to Buytewech were regarded until the beginning of the 20th century as works by Frans or Dirck Hals. The similarities to Buytewech's surviving drawings and prints led to their reattribution. This painting depicts four fashionably dressed figures in a courtyard. Their sumptuous attire is depicted with virtuosity.",
    "3930": "King Nimrod is paying a visit to the building site, stonemasons going down on their knees before him. Performing the kowtow was not common practice in Europe; Bruegel made use of it to point to the story's oriental origins.",
    "11405": "This dramatic scene takes place at night. Torches shine out among the sticks and halberds against the blue of the sky. The throngs of people crowd into the centre, towards Christ, who is betrayed by Judas' kiss.",
    "21822": "The detail shows the head of Pericles.",
    "1788": "This canvas depicts the healing of Pietro dei Ludovici. The miracle, which occurred through contact with a processional candle which had touched the relic of the Holy Cross, takes place inside a chapel which is in large part occupied by an extremely elegant ciborium surmounted by the eagle symbol of St John the Evangelist. This detail and also the triptych on the altar which recalls the one painted by Bastiani in his canvas depicting the \"Donation of the Relic\", suggests that Gentile Bellini wished here to set the scene in the interior of the church of St John the Evangelist. Echoing his father Jacopo's interest in Renaissance \"umbratile\", Gentile Bellini concentrates on the detailed rendering of the complex play of architectural surfaces within which human figures play their part.",
    "8075": "This painting depicts a still-life with melons, plums, cherries, and bread on a table draped with a white damask tablecloth. In the panel the artist has combined a number of his favourite table elements. With its lowered viewpoint, concentration on a limited number of objects and its single-point perspective, this painting anticipates the works of the monochrome banketje in Haarlem over the next decade.",
    "31903": "The painting represents a Dutch Warship off a harbour firing a salute; a rowing boat approaching with a crowd cheering and waving. The date of 1640 for the painting is significant in Dutch naval history, as in that and the previous year they had considerable success against the Spanish fleet, firstly off Dover on 16th September 1639. The complete victory was of immense importance for the Dutch nation, and was celebrated in verse, literature and medals.",
    "8278": "In 1701 the marquis Scipione Repeta engaged Vincenzan architect Francesco Muttoni to rebuild the old family palace located in Piazza San Lorenzo, Vicenza. The project was completed in 1711. The monumental double-flight staircase leading to the piano nobile was completed in 1707, according to the inscription above the arch next to the second landing. The ceiling of the staircase was frescoed by the French artist Louis Dorigny, who displayed a masterly skill in his use of perspective, opening up an oval space on the ceiling that frames a view of sky in which the scene Minerva Casting Out the Vices unfold. To the sides, four large, faux Palladian windows, half-hidden by groupings of clouds, hold two theologian virtues - Hope and Charity - and two cardinal virtues - Justice and Fortitude - all accompanied by their respective attributes. At the corners of the room, figures of the Vices are chained to strongly projecting rocks. Above the Vices are four rosy-toned monochrome oculi with putti engaged in virtuous activities. The twentieth-century restoration after 1950 irremediably compromised the ceiling fresco.",
    "26246": "The picture shows the ceiling with the fresco Night and Dawn in the former queen's bedroom in the Palazzo Reale in Turin. For bedroom ceilings the typical Baroque depiction was that of Aurora. This was followed in the seventeenth century, as we see from the richly decorated ceiling by Daniel Seiter in the Palazzo Reale, which juxtaposes Night and Dawn.",
    "21195": "The painting depicts a winter landscape with figures on a frozen river, a town beyond. Highlighted near the centre, a group of figures stand in conversation, amongst whom a white horse - a recurring motif in Isaac van Ostade's work - stands with its head bowed. The theme of crowded winter landscapes, pioneered by Pieter Brueghel the Elder, became extremely popular in the seventeenth century. It was one of van Ostade's favourite subjects, and he became one of the genre's finest exponents.",
    "1977": "The church Santa Maria della Carità in Venice was reconstructed in the middle of the 15th century. Various chapels were erected between 1460 and 1464 by noble families. Four chapels were decorated by altarpieces which are now associated with Jacopo Bellini and his sons: the St Sebastian Triptych in the St Sebastian Chapel; the St Lawrence Triptych in the Chapel of Lorenzo Dolfin; the Nativity Triptych in the Chapel of Andrea da Molin; the Madonna Triptych in the Chapel of Giacomo Zorzi. The four triptychs can still be seen in the church of the Carità, for which they were painted, now incorporated into the Gallerie dell'Accademia. The St Sebastian Triptych consists of a lunette (59 x 170 cm) representing the Annunciation; the left panel (127 x 48 cm) representing St John the Evangelist; the central panel (103 x 45 cm) representing St Sebastian; the right panel (103 x 45 cm) representing St Anthony Abbot. The triptych of the chapel of St Sebastian was commissioned by Zaccaria Vitturini. It also shows the influence of the vibrant energy of Donatello and the rigorous plasticity of Mantegna, made softer and more natural by Bellini's use of colour.",
    "7725": "The painting shows two horses galloping, one of which ridden by a gentleman in a white suit.",
    "12969": "In the centre of the Shrine of the Madonna della Tosse the Madonna breast feeding the Child is depicted. This type of Madonna was common from the late Middle ages onwards. She is surrounded by St Peter with the keys and a book, St Catherine with a broken wheel, St Margaret with a cross, and St Paul with a sword and book. In order to create the impression of a real altarpiece, several angels are holding a curtain around the altar painting. At the bottom edge of the picture, as if placed there quite by chance, Benozzo has painted a small pointed panel painting showing the face of Christ.",
    "7723": "This painting is one of a pair of landscapes dominated by stately oaks and brooding skies. It depicts a landscape with a village road and figures conversing in the right foreground. A dense growth of trees encroaches on the village, having already hidden from sight a cottage nestled in its midst.",
    "14793": "The concern for direct observation led Hunt to leave for Palestine in 1854 in search of biblical locations. It was to the south of the Dead Sea, at Kharbet Esdun (then identified as the site of Sodom), that he painted the desolate landscape of his Scapegoat. Hunt depicts the animal as an exile living in this uninhabited place, bearing the sins of the Jewish people (according to the Old Testament another goat was sacrificed, and it is this one, drowned in the sea, whose horns can be seen on the left). The white goat, symbol of purity, a trickle of blood on its horns, prefigures the Messiah wearing the crown of thorns, who, through his Passion, was to redeem the sins of the world. This personal interpretation of the Holy Scriptures surprised people when the work was submitted to the Royal Academy in 1856, but the image nevertheless has a haunting quality about it. This is one of the great inventions of the period.",
    "4859": "This painting offers in the head of the giant Goliath a last and painful self-portrait. The scarred, haggard head of Goliath with its vacant gaze speaks of the painter's profound anxiety.",
    "32005": "Approximately half of Van Wittel's Roman vedute are views either of or along the Tiber. Made at fifteen different locations, most of them were repeated at least twice, as in this case. The present view represents the southernmost point Van Wittel ever painted along the Tiber. It was taken looking towards the north from the eastern bank, opposite the Porta Portese. To the left, across the river, we can see the quay known as the Porto di Ripa Grande, with the two long stairways and the customs building, behind which the small tower of Santa Maria della Torre is just visible. Further along the same bank of the Tiber, right before the river bend, lies the Palazzina Pamphilj and its garden, obscuring the Ponte Rotto. Most of the complex was demolished in the late nineteenth century to make way for the Ospizio di San Michele, except for the customs building, which was razed in 1914—15. The tall tower on the horizon in the middle of the composition stands on the Capitoline; to its right are the Torre delle Milizie, the dome of Santi Luca e Martina, the Quirinal and the campanile of Santa Maria in Cosmedin. On the right riverbank near the Via della Marmorata, marked by a few blocks of marble, is an array of houses of various shapes and sizes, gardens and places of work. Lying in the Tiber below, there are the remains of a bridge that has long since collapsed and, further in the distance, those of the old Ponte Sublicio. There is almost no traffic on the river. A galley and two two-masters are moored at the Porto di Ripa Grande, while some rowboats, a large, flat-bottomed barge and an impressive rowing-sloop can be noticed. Among the figures strolling on the right a few monks can be distinguished as well as a gentleman who looks rather Dutch. This painting is a good example of Van Wittel's ability to group all the various elements of a sweeping panorama into one harmonious and well-ordered whole. A recurrent feature in his panoramas is the plateau in the foreground or a section of a wall or a cliff, enlivened by a small group of figures. One of them, in this case the man with the oar, serves to lead the spectator's eye into the composition. Van Wittel's vantage-point is generally rather high, according to the traditional Dutch formula he had learned from his teacher Withoos. In the foreground the painter looks down — in this case at the men in the rowboats — and then his eye is drawn to the middle of the composition and finally into the background. The painter induces the viewer, through the guide with the oar, to revolve a quarter circle from left to right, to survey the entire panorama. Finally, Van Wittel's extraordinary ability to represent water, with its shifting, shimmering reflections and almost palpable wetness, should be mentioned. This effect, unequalled by any other painter, is especially characteristic of Van Wittel's works from the early years of the eighteenth century.",
    "17907": "Maratti executed mostly large religious paintings, portraits and Madonnas. With this Virgin beside the sleeping Child surrounded by St Catherine of Alexandria and four angels, Maratti alludes to the Virgin and Child paintings of the late fifteenth- and early sixteenth-century Italian masters. The pyramidal composition, the use of sfumato, and the grace and sophistication of the Virgin's pose are inspired by Maratti's knowledge of the works of Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, and Parmigianino.",
    "15653": "The repentant (penitent) Magdalen was a theme of particular importance for Georges de La Tour. He is known to have painted four full-length versions of the subject which are now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; in the Musée du Louvre, Paris; in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles; and in the National Gallery of Art, Washington. Moreover, there are several copies as well as a contemporary engraving. All of La Tour's Magdalens run counter to the type favoured by most of his contemporaries, who preferred to portray a voluptuous and scantily clothed Magdalen in a cave or grotto, eyes heavenward, curly blond hair flowing over her shoulders. By contrast, La Tour's Magdalens appear in profile with dark, straight hair, seated at a table in an austere interior.",
    "27319": "\"Our Mother\" by Alajos Stróbl was awarded the Grand Prix at the Paris World Exhibition of 1900. He worked on it for three years and completed it in the year of the Millennium, 1896. Although it is doubtlessly one of the most intimate work of Hungarian sculpture, it had only moderate success in Hungary, despite the fact that the Museum of Fine Arts bought it year it was completed. The artist chose the subject himself, inspired by an inner drive. The chosen subject clearly determined the style of representation, the sensitive modelling and the emotional content. The expressiveness and its human warmth make it one of the outstanding pieces of Hungarian sculpture from the turn of the century. \"Our Mother\" shows an old woman sitting in a high-backed armchair, resting her hands on an open book but glancing up from her reading. In the beautiful features of his mother, the artist has managed to express the understanding and wisdom acquired over a long lifetime. Her distant look and the faint smile are reflections of her soul.",
    "23183": "Prouvé represents his friend Emile Gallé working on a vase, surrounded by a few of his glassware and floral inspirations. As the designer of the objects produced by his firm, Gallé scrupulously verified and commented on each step of the process. In this portrait, two physical characteristics of Gallé have been accentuated: his wide, airy forehead (traditionally a sign of intelligence), and his hands, particularly his left hand holding a vase (elongated, reminding us of Gallé's manual profession). These characteristics transmit the idea that man's social progress can be achieved through the combination of intellectual and manual labour. \"The ambience depicts the lyrical poetic spirit of Gallé, to which the treatment of light also contributes as an integrating element, forming a kind of halo behind the head of the subject.\" (Quoted from the exhibition catalogue, Nancy, 1900).",
    "9866": "The great number of objects and their detailed contours, the still life-like motifs recall the Flemish painting. The Saint is in a 'scriptorium' (a codex workshop) full with monks whose white and brown clothes reveal that they belong to a branch of the Hieronymite monks, the Lupian hermits.",
    "15563": "The painting depicts a smoky interior, the poorly lit Grand Café, with its gentlemen reading the papers and smoking cigars. In the foreground is an uncleared, deserted table. The subject has just come in from the street. He is clearly a dandy, wearing a dark coat with a voluptuous fur collar and sporting a moustache and eyeglasses. In his gloved right hand he holds a burning cigarette, the swirl of smoke drifting into the bluish haze of the room. The seemingly Parisian scene is set in Christiania (later Oslo) in Norway.",
    "8274": "The Villa Allegri was built around 1656 by the Allegri family, nobility from Verona, on the site of a preexisting sixteenth-century structure. It was designed by the Veronese architect and sculptor Giovanni Battista Bianchi. The main hall of the villa and the adjoining oratory was decorated with frescoes by Louis Dorigny in c. 1719. The interior of the oratory is covered in frescoes which are better preserved than those in the main hall. The vault of the central space contains a depiction of Elisha and the Chariot of Helios. To the sides, in ovals edged with laurel wreaths, the figures of the Fathers of the Church are portrayed with almost comic-like wit. In the presbytery, the altar is a good example of trompe l'oeil painting. On the ceiling, the Holy Spirit accompanied by angels cherubs is represented. The pendentives hold monochrome figures of the Four Evangelists.",
    "23497": "The story in this fresco is broken down into three distinct episodes, taken from the Acts of the Apostles. The third (at right) shows the bewildered Peter led by the hand of the divine messenger: the angel leads the stunned and still-sleepy St Peter past another sleeping guard.",
    "18325": "The detail represents the soldier turning back in the central part of the painting.",
    "7600": "The detail shows the Virgin.",
    "24432": "The Rape of the Sabine Women and its companion-piece the Battle of the Romans and the Sabines illustrates the legend of Rome's foundation. Romulus, the founder of Rome, succeeded by a ruse in ensuring the future growth of the population. He arranged a festival to which were invited the inhabitants of neighbouring settlements including the Sabines, with their wives and children. During the festivities, at a given signal, the young men of Rome broke into the crowd and, choosing only unmarried maidens of the Sabines, carried them off. The Sabine women accepted their lot. But later a Sabine army attacked the city in force and succeeded in overcoming part of it. They were prevented from going further by the intervention of the Sabine women which brought about peace between the warring soldiers. The story of the rape is told through five couples, arranged symmetrically. They show the same motif from various viewpoints. The central couple is modelled on Bernini's marble group The Rape of Proserpina.",
    "18567": "This panel showing the Crucifixion comes from a large dismantled retable probably made for the high altar of the former Kollegiatstift Sankt Maria und Sankt Georg, now the Neustädter Marienkirche in Bielefeld. One of the key monuments of late medieval painting in Westphalia, completed in 1400, the altarpiece was a triptych with folding wings about 6,56 maters wide when fully opened and about 2,18 meters high, including its lost frame. In the open state, it displayed a large central image of the Virgin and Child enthroned in the company of saints, flanked by thirty smaller scenes ranging from God Warns Adam about the Tree of Knowledge, through the life of the Virgin Mary and the Passion of Christ, to the Last Judgment, all on gold ground. The small scenes were arranged in three rows of ten, with the subjects progressing chronologically across each row, skipping over the Virgin and Child at centre, from the upper left to the lower right. The Crucifixion was located at the bottom row of the left wing. It shows the dead Christ on the Cross flanked by the Virgin Mary and St John the Evangelist. An additional female figure, probably the Virgin's sister Mary Cleophas, stands at the far left.",
    "4818": "The detail shows the head of the Madonna.",
    "30777": "Paolo Veronese left his native Verona in 1553 to settle in Venice where he came under the influence of the Venetian figurative tradition and then Mannerism, in particular of Parmigianino and Giulio Romano. The rich and complex arrangement of his compositions is matched by a brilliant use of colour, characterized by the juxtaposition of complementary colours and a vibrant solar light. One of Veronese's principal works of the 1560s, the 'Enthroned Madonna and Child, with the Infant St John the Baptist and Saints' was painted for the Sacristy of the Venetian Renaissance church of San Zaccaria (restored in 1562). It is a fine example of the early works of Veronese with its harmonious richness of colour. The saints represented in this altarpiece (called Pala di San Zaccaria) are Joseph, Jerome, Justina of Padua and Francis. The young John the Baptist stands at the meeting point of the two compositional diagonals formed by the figures of St. Joseph, St Francis and St Jerome, who are invested with a look of detached spirituality. The colour is made vibrant by a continual juxtaposition of light and dark tones. Through an understanding of the interaction of colour every hue is intensified and enriched. The diapason of Veronesian colour is achieved in the portrayal of the Virgin and child set against the damask of the niche. This altarpiece still shows the influence of Mannerist culture in the calculated asymmetry of the group of the Madonna and Child and the affected poses of some of the saints. Unfettered by convention, Veronese has placed the infant St John the Baptist half naked at the centre of the composition.",
    "7890": "The number of major paintings that derive from Delacroix's Moroccan notes and sketchbooks is clear proof of the impact of the experience. They include the Jewish Wedding in Morocco, The Fanatics of Tangier and The Sultan of Morocco and his Entourage. In the composition of these works, Delacroix scrupulously observed the notes and sketches that he had made in situ. Thus the decor of the Jewish Wedding in Morocco exactly matches that recorded in a watercolour in the notebook, while his notes give an exact description of the painting that was to come. The Sultan of Morocco and his Entourage was intended to immortalise the Comte de Mornay's diplomatic mission, his successful meeting with the Sultan. In fact, Delacroix scorned the opportunity to commemorate an event doomed to oblivion. Instead, he concentrated on creating a spectacular open-air scene in bright light, with vivid colours and monumental protagonists. Exemplifying his orientalising vein, it also exhibits the full wealth of his technical mastery.",
    "12356": "Catalogue numbers: F 720, JH 1728. Van Gogh often painted this view from his hospital window at Saint-Rémy, using the window itself as a sort of perspective frame. He had tried to master the laws of correct perspective by reading textbooks on the subject, and in The Hague he had had a perspective frame made to help him in achieving it. In the present painting the foreground and background do not match. The foreground, painted as if the grass and poppies are immediately beneath our feet, seems to tilt and slide forwards and downwards, thwarting the intended planar recession to the infinitely more distant background. The deviations from traditional geometric systems for representing space, created by van Gogh's unsystematic use of these systems, serve, however, to produce an effect of dynamic space and immediacy.",
    "12658": "This was one of the sketches for a tapestry cartoon that was never executed, due to the death of Charles III, who had commissioned them. It was among the sketches sold to the Duke of Osuna in 1799. The scene represents the most popular festival in the Madrid calendar, which is still celebrated on 15 May, the feast day of the city's patron saint, Isidore the Labourer. In a letter to his friend Zapater in Saragossa, Goya wrote of the difficulties of such a subject especially as he had to finish this painting by the saint's day 'with all the bustle of the court'. It is in fact a rare example of a landscape by Goya, taken from the far side of the Manzanares River with the city's landmarks on the horizon, and in the foreground the crowds amusing themselves as at a fair, the pilgrims hard to distinguish among the animated crowds. Goya's viewpoint must have been the Hermitage of San Isidro, the goal of the pilgrimage. The building in Goya's painting (also designed as a sketch for a tapestry cartoon), is still preserved, marking the spot where the saint struck a well of water with healing powers. On a tiny scale, Goya has included the pilgrims lining up to enter the church, a picnic scene and a group at the miraculous well. Many years later Goya was to decorate the walls of his country house, the Quinta del Sordo, built not far from the Hermitage, with a nightmare vision of A Pilgrimage to San Isidro.",
    "24269": "In the left fresco on the altar wall in the Sala Capitolare St Anthony is seen soon after his arrival in Padua, preaching to establish peace among the citizens of the city.",
    "1759": "This is one of the few surviving paintings by Jacques Bellange, founder of the Lotharingian school of painting, who worked at the court of dukes Charles III and Henry II of Lorraine. The painting is a rare example of French Mannerism in religious art. The fanciful interlacing of zigzag lines and the sharp contrasts of light and shade intensify the sense of mental anguish evident even in the face of the donor, on the right (perhaps a portrait of Bellange's ducal patron).",
    "10610": "Art historians assume that the commission for the polyptych probably came from Chiavello Chiavelli, lord of Fabriano, who had the monastery Santa Maria di Valdisasso near Fabriano restored in 1406 and selected it as the place for his own burial. The central panel of the polyptych (157 x 80 cm) depicts the Coronation of the Virgin; the side panels (118 x 40 cm each) represent St Jerome, St Francis, St Dominic, and Mary Magdalene; the upper panels, whose sequence has not been definitively reconstructed (49 x 38 cm each) shows The Killing of St Peter Martyr, St John the Baptist in the Desert,  St Francis Receiving the Stigmata, and A Franciscan Saint, probably St Anthony of Padua. A familiarity with late fourteenth-century Lombard miniatures and graphic work undoubtedly was an important element in Gentile da Fabriano's training, as is indicated by the clear affinities between his work and that of Michelino da Besozzo. He was also influenced by masters of mixed tendencies, such as Barnaba da Modena and Taddeo di Bartolo, and more incisively by Venetian and Tuscan art. In the central panel, the Virgin is shown being crowned by Christ, in the presence of God the Father and the Holy Ghost. The refined and delicate composition is made up of the three weightless figures - which seem to be disembodied in their draperies - and insubstantial elements, such as the radiant and flaming nimbus that supports the apparition of the Trinity. Curved forms - including the band of angel musicians, the contours of the figures of Christ and the Virgin, and the crowd of seraphim around God the Father - echo the arched shape of the panel. In the side panels, the bodies of the saints also disappear within the fluid coils of their robes. There is a highly refined play of colour variations among the four figures. The red, white and gold robe of St Jerome and the pink and violet costume of Mary Magdalene contrast with the more sober brown of St Francis' habit and the black of St Dominic's mantle. St Francis' bare feet, an attribute of his iconography, are almost disconnected from the figure. The feet of the other figures remain invisible, hidden by their robes and the thick carpet of flowers. Indifference to the rendering of space and the relative sizes of figures can also be seen in the smaller panels of the altarpiece. St John the Baptist and St Francis, shown kneeling in profile, are squeezed in among rocky peaks without regard to realistic proportions. Similarly, St Anthony is placed in a narrow garden, hemmed in by the wall and the door which emphasize the atmosphere of private meditation. St Peter's martyrdom, which is not very sanguinary despite the flow of blood, creates an impact by being brought forward toward the spectator.",
    "26263": "The painting represents the two children of the artist, Sasha and Yurra Serov.",
    "10748": "The Company of Jesus commissioned from Vasari a cycle of frescoes for their own oratory in Cortona. (This oratory is now part of the Museo Diocesano.) The cycle, seen in the twelve lunettes on the walls, was intended to show the sacrifices offered by characters of the Old Testament, one on each wall. The cycle ends with the representation on the vault of three episodes from the New Testament, connecting the theme of the transition from the Old to the New Testament. These episodes depict the Transfiguration, the Descent in Limbo, and the Conversion of St Paul.",
    "10390": "The painting shows Lot and his daughters in a panoramic landscape with the towns of Sodom and Gomorrah in flames. Lucas Gassel is considered as a landscape painter following in the tradition of Joachim Patenier. His landscapes are always accompanied by scenes from the Old and New Testament. This portrayal of Lot and his daughters in a chaotic landscape is a good illustration of Gassel's artistic intentions.",
    "21988": "This portrait of the twenty-seven-year-old prince Frederick II moves from the real to the ideal, from the documentary to flattery. It was painted in 1739 when the prince acceded to the throne. Pesne politely foreshortened the prince's great nose. For this portrait the new king of Prussia is suitably regal in velvet and ermine over armour, invested with the Order of the Black Eagle, which was founded by his grandfather Frederick I in 1701.",
    "18910": "This panel represents the portrait of an unidentified lady, bust length, in a black gown and linen partlet.",
    "6559": "The goddess Venus, the mother of Aeneas, appeared him twice, first in the midst of burning Troy to bid him be on his way. Later, when the Trojans were washed ashore near Carthage after the storm at sea, Aeneas and his friend Achates set out to explore. Venus appeared once more, this time with bow and quiver disguised as a huntress, to direct them to Dido's palace. The artist depicted in this picture the second appearance.",
    "7088": "There is a companion piece showing a prince. The two children, dressed in characteristic Saxon costumes of the finest type, have been thought to be brother and sister, perhaps the children of Duke George the Bearded. The crown worn by the boy, however, signifies his engagement to be married, and the girl is likely to be his future bride. Cranach, court painter at Wittenberg and the leading artist in Saxony, was in great demand as a portraitist; these two paintings well explain the master's popularity.",
    "14223": "The painting shows an event in the Second Punic War: after Scipio Africanus's capture of Carthago Nova, the exceptionally beautiful virgin betrothed to the Celtiberian prince Allucius, fell into the hands of the Romans. Scipio allowed her to return untouched to her family. Here the young man is shown kneeling before Scipio as he reunites the couple. Heiss painted the subject of the Continence of Scipio on two other occasions.",
    "30748": "The picture shows one of the three large paintings on the ceiling of the nave of the church of San Sebastiano: Esther Crowned by Ahasuerus (rectangular, in the centre), The Triumph of Mordecai (oval), and The Banishment of Vashti (oval). This ceiling painting above the entrance to the presbytery illustrating Mordecai's triumph over the conspirator Haman represents a dramatic climax. With Haman and his black steed about to fall, Mordecai, with the insignia of royalty, triumphs on his white horse. Haman has tried in vain to get the king to execute Mordecai, but is instead instructed to take Mordecai in state round the city on horseback. Esther and Ahasuerus watch the triumphal procession from the roof terrace of the royal palace.",
    "1281": "The hero lies on the ground, shown in foreshortened view, killed by the arrow that has pierced his vulnerable heel.",
    "31768": "The picture shows the upper panel to the right.",
    "13081": "The St Sebastian is El Greco's first life-size male nude, and it is one of the key works of the artist's first years in Spain. The Saint abandoned after his martyrdom and presumed death. The style is that of around 1580. The frontal placing of the nude figure and treatment of the forms avoids a three-dimensional emphasis. The greater prominence of the setting - and of actual depth, in the vista on the right - compared with the paintings for Santo Domingo, the Cathedral and the Escorial, depends on the subject. In comparable representations of Saints, as of the Magdalene or Saint Jerome in the wilderness, he continues to indicate a setting. Where the image alone is demanded, as in his series of Apostles, a setting is omitted. In this painting the forms of tree and rock and the silhouette of the foliage are made to continue the plane of the figure. It is perhaps the natural sequence in the process of dematerialisation that the more flexible elements, the draperies, preceded the nude figure and natural forms. El Greco did not use the pose again for a Saint Sebastian. A related figure is the Christ in the Prado Baptism of some fifteen to twenty years later; the Saint Jerome of his last year shows the culmination of this development. The compositional motif of the pose, with the outstretched leg taking the movement upwards appears in the Adoration of the Shepherds of similar date, and indeed in El Greco's work is first met in the Adoration of the Modena Triptych.",
    "2732": "A lush bouquet of flowers stands on the table. The glass vase is barely big enough to hold the profusion of tulips, roses, anemones, and carnations. The painter knew how to turn a bouquet of flowers into a unified whole, more so than did Bosschaert and Van der Ast, the painters also specialised in flower still-lifes. He achieved this effect by means of a more supple technique, by using less diverse and less exuberant colours, by letting some of the flowers to overlap and by the subtle play of light and shadow. Part of this red and white bouquet remains in the shadow, while several flamed tulips catch the full light.",
    "16546": "The detail shows the right group with a young man poisoned by the pestilential smell.",
    "13735": "Guttenbrunn's portrait of Haydn exists in two versions. It is possible that the first dates from his encounter with Haydn at the Esterházy court in the early 1770s, and the second from their encounter in London in the early 1790s. The second version is more detailed than the first, and was the basis for an engraving (1792) by Luigi Schiavonetti. The portrait shows Haydn in the act of composing: he is seated at a keyboard, gazing into the distance, testing out notes with one hand and putting pen to paper with the other.",
    "13158": "Christ on the Cross, at the moment of expiration, with the Virgin and Saint John, and at the foot of the Cross, the Magdalene. Probably originally above the Annunciation, in the retable of the Colegio of Doña María. This painting and the Annunciation are the two widest of the series. Already, in Santo Domingo el Antiguo, the artist had sensibly related together in composition the two central paintings of the high altar, the Assumption and Trinity. Again, there is this compositional relationship of the two paintings, but there is also something more in this bringing together of the two so diverse yet intimately related themes of the Virgin's reception of the Holy Ghost, and Christ's giving up of the Holy Ghost. One subject represents one of the Joys of the Virgin, and the other incorporates one of Her Griefs. Each painting is divided horizontally in three. The figure of Christ of the Expiration is a continuation upwards of the central zone of the Annunciation with the Flames and the Dove; the figure of the Archangel Gabriel has its counterpart in the figure of Saint John; and the Virgin of Joy appears above as the Virgin of Grief. This painting of the Crucifixion is one of the great interpretations of the subject in painting and almost inevitably brings to mind two other great Crucifixions, Grünewald's of the Isenheim Altar and Giotto's of the Arena Chapel. El Greco has introduced more of those symbols embodying spiritual emotions: the clamouring angels with outstretched arms encircling the Body of Christ - strangely recalling Giotto's painting - and the remarkable figure of the angel at the foot of the Cross.",
    "3989": "With the exception of Christ himself, the figures in the procession wear contemporary dress, and there can be no doubt that Bruegel meant his representation of the scene to have a particular reference to his own day. The sacred figures - the fainting Virgin assisted by St John and the other two Maries (only one of whom is shown here, on the right) - are separated from the main events by being placed on a small, rocky plateau. They act out their own, apparently independent, drama, largely unnoticed by the figures behind them. Larger than the background figures and isolated from them, the Virgin and her companions occupy a separate, timeless world, clearly removed from the contemporary world and yet having the most profound significance for it.",
    "28927": "From 1891 to 1895 Lautrec was a regular at the brothel in the Rue des Moulins. It was during this time that he drew many subjects from brothel life, including anything from the laundresses to the most intimate scenes between the women who lived in the brothel. It was in the salon, the brothel's reception room, that the women awaited their customers. Here introductions were made, and the visitors took their pick. Of the objects that decorated such salons - the mirrors, columns, plants and knick-knacks - there is almost no hints here. Instead the voluminous red sofas dominate the picture. As long as there were no guests the atmosphere in the salon was one of boredom, and Lautrec has brilliantly caught the listless, joyless waiting, the prostitutes' apathy, making this the theme of the picture.",
    "18545": "The scene is placed within a spacious Gothic cathedral, or, more specifically, in its vestibule. This in itself is symbolic; as a church can only be entered after passing through the porch, so the Church, conceived in both meanings as a building and an organization, cannot come into being without the incarnation of Jesus. The rich colours are used to stress the central importance of Mary; the lily in the vase is a reference to her miraculous virginity. Fine-spun yellow hair frames the face downcast in devout attention; her kneeling figure is enveloped in the gold-shot fabric of her mantle, made of the famous \"Tours\" brocade, and the whole is effectively enclosed in the sombre greys of the walls.",
    "24939": "The detail shows the Crucifixion, one of the three \"window\" paintings in the background of the fresco. Two of them, the Arrest of Christ and the Crucifixion were executed by Biagio d'Antonio Tucci, a Florentine painter, who assisted Cosimo Rosselli in the execution of the Last Supper.",
    "14775": "This altarpiece was commissioned by the corporation of the shoemakers for its chapel in the cathedral of Barcelona. Its emblem, the shoe, can be seen on the frame.",
    "6119": "The Landscape with Roman Ruins, traditionally ascribed to Paul de Cock, is a striking example of the fashionable vedute - a Roman capriccio mixing together famous ruins like the Pantheon, the temple of Castor and Pollux and the Coliseum. De Cock was Garemijn's successor as director of the Bruges Academy.",
    "31688": "This painting depicts the scene when King Saul welcomes David, the conqueror of Goliath. David kneels before the King, behind him are a number of soldiers holding the sword and the helmet of Goliath, whose severed head is in the foreground.",
    "29834": "In the foreground, on a low stool, a wild-looking man in ragged clothes and only one shoe riddled with holes sits grinding something in a giant mortar with an equally oversized pestle. This figure, known in Italy by the name pestapepe (peppergrinder), belonged to a widespread repertoire of types which appears in several other Italian paintings in the fifteenth century. The figure also represents an unpleasant task, one that was considered lowly because of the strong odour of some of the medicines.",
    "23533": "The painting was in the possession of the Aldobrandini family, then in the 19th century it was in England, in the collection of Lord Garvagh. The background of the painting probably shows a landscape near to Rome.",
    "5487": "The immediacy of this figure is accentuated by the low viewpoint and the aggressively realistic style - evident as much in the psychological profile of the individual as in the formal depiction of details of costume and setting. (Note the view of a farm village in the background, and a man defecating in the middle of the road.) The source of inspiration  for Ceruti was the Beggars series of prints by Jacques Callot.",
    "28106": "The figures in the crowd, crushed close together in front of the panopticon and costumed according to class and age, turn their backs on the viewer.",
    "32044": "This picture shows a lady's bay hunter held by a liveried groom in a classical landscape, with a hound and a peacock looking on. It is likely that this is a portrait of a horse belonging to the painter's friend George Rochfort, 1st Earl of Belvidere (1708-1774), who spent much of his life in London.",
    "3052": "The arrangement of Bosschaert's bouquets is highly symmetrical and the various flowers scarcely overlap. Each flower is rendered individually and testifies to careful observation. A niche frames the bouquet nicely and closes off the composition. Arched niches are one of the characteristic features of Bosschaert's flower still-lifes, as are the exotic shells which he added to this picture. Shells, like unusual flowers were a popular collector's item at the time.",
    "24037": "Catalogue number: Bredius 632. This is an early work by Rembrandt from 1626. He made it when he was twenty years old and signed it with the monogram RH: Rembrandt Harmensz. Led by a young woman, a group of people are playing music in a room. She is reading the music from the sheet, singing and beating time. The two men are accompanying her on their instruments - the young man on the harp and the older man on a viola da gamba. An older woman is reading over the girl's shoulder, listening attentively with her hand on her chin. In the foreground is a violin, a lute and a pile of books. The subject of this painting is a mystery: is it an exhortation to praise God through singing and string music, or a scene of seduction with the old woman as a procuress? In any case, in this early work Rembrandt used elements from his own surroundings: his mother modelled for the old woman, and Rembrandt's own features can be recognized in the young man.",
    "20861": "While the chief influence on Alberegno was his experience of the artists working in Padua, Giusto de' Menabuoi in particular, Niccolò di Pietro absorbed influences from even further afield, from Emilia to the Rhineland and Bohemia. The result of this tendency to be interested in what was happening in other cultural centres was that Niccolò di Pietro from 1494 (the date on the Madonna and Child and a Devotee') became the most important Venetian artist working during the period of transition to International Gothic style. In this panel the traditional iconography is respected, even to the miniscule proportions of the figure of Vulciano Belgarzone da Zara who commissioned the painting, kneeling at the feet of the Virgin. But the decorative abstraction of Paolo Veneziano no less than the refined elegance of Lorenzo Veneziano have now gone for ever and in their place is a confident human sense which pervades every figure represented plastically within a composition conceived with precise intentions of rendering a definite spacial entity.",
    "12126": "The infant Jesus lies on the ground surrounded by rays of light to signify him as the Light of the world. His mother Mary, father Joseph, various angels and the shepherds stand around him in adoration. In the background, the previous moment in the narrative sequence, when the angel announces the birth of the Saviour, is depicted in the surrounding scenery. The continuity of the background landscape erases the division between the central image and the side panels, where the family who commissioned the work is shown in prayer under the protection of four saints. To the left, Thomas the Apostle and St Anthony the Great preside over the head of family Tommaso Portinari and his two sons Antonio and Pigello, while to the right St Margaret, victorious on the dragon which had swallowed her, and Mary Magdalen, holding a vial of unguent, stand watch over Maria Baroncelli Portinari and her daughter Margherita. The different proportions of the saints and the members of the family reflect their position in social and religious hierarchy. Originating from Florence, Tommaso Portinari (1428-1501) lived in Bruges for many years where he worked as a representative of the bank of the Medici family. In 1470 he married Maria Baroncelli, also of Florence; the family is depicted with clothing and hairstyles that reflect the Flemish fashion of the time. During his time in Flanders, Tommaso Portinari commissioned Flemish painter Hugo van der Goes to paint the Adoration of the Shepherds Triptych to adorn the Portinari family chapel in the church of Saint Giles in the Santa Maria Nuova hospital in Florence. The painting's arrival in Florence in 1483, having first reached Pisa by sea, was quite an event; the work was perceived to be extraordinarily innovative in the eyes of the Florentine painters, who particularly praised the realistic likeness of the objects, landscape and facial features. The still-life imagery in the central foreground is astonishing and abounds with symbolic references: the white iris and red lily allude to the theme of purity and Jesus's blood spilled during the Passion of the Christ, the purple columbine represents the sorrow of the Virgin Mary, while the carnations symbolize the Holy Trinity. When closed, the triptych showed a depiction of the Annunciation, painted in black and white on the verso of the doors.",
    "1727": "The painting depicts a still-life with a large Wan-Li porcelain dish of fruit, a pewter dish of fruit, medlars and nuts, a moth, two Venetian-style glasses of wine, one white and the other red, a knife with an ornamental handle, white grapes, a roll of bread and half a peach. About half of the known oeuvre of this contemporary of Jan Brueghel the Elder and Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder consists of flower pieces and still-lifes including bouquets;  the other half are still-lifes displaying fruit, oysters and other foodstuffs, often in rather costly containers. Usually, as is the case here, Beert's still-lifes have a rather high viewpoint, which allowed the artist to arrange his motifs systematically, while one back corner of the table is often clearly visible. The composition of this still-life is typical of Osias Beert: a rather formal array of containers filled with fruit, supplemented with wine glasses, bread, and a knife, interspersed with some small items.",
    "14033": "Jacob van Hasselt painted this work to celebrate the marriage of his sister Grietje Hermans van Hasselt to Jochum Berntsen van Haecken in the Buurkerk in Utrecht on 15 May 1638. Van Hasselt painted himself standing behind the bride. Sumptuous pies and sweets suitable for this festive occasion are spread out on the table. The delicate salt cellar and elegant golden chalices ostentatiously held by two of the guests were likely made by two family members who were goldsmiths, Berent Janssen van Hasselt and Peter Jacobsz. van Hasselt. Although the scene depicts a contemporary wedding, the bride and the groom, and a few of the guests, are dressed in antique robes and turbans. In addition, the groom wears a golden crown. He and his bride sit under a canopy supported by two antique-style columns. The painter thus conceived the scene as a portrait historié (historical portrait).",
    "14804": "This portrait represents a countess wearing robes for the coronation of James II. The coronation of James II and his Queen, Mary of Modena, took place on 23 April 1685 at Westminster Abbey, and the robes worn by members of the peerage were specially designed for the occasion. The coronet on the table behind the sitter in this painting is that of a Countess in the peerage of England, twenty nine of whom attended James II's coronation ceremony.",
    "12319": "Catalogue numbers: F 604, JH 1656. This cheerful still-life was painted shortly after van Gogh left the hospital in Arles which he had entered after his first major attack of psychomotor epilepsy on 25 December 1888. The objects depicted have both an allegorical and a more personal significance. The lighted candle, used in the painting of Gauguin's chair, derives from the emblematic tradition of still-life and signifies light and life; its opposite, the snuffed-out candle, was used in memento mori still-life and van Gogh had included it in a still-life with books which he painted after his father's death in 1885 (Amsterdam, Rijksmuseum Vincent van Gogh). The optimistic note sounded by the candle flame is underlined by the presence of the sprouting onions, taken from his Yellow Chair (a 'self-portrait'). On the other hand, van Gogh has added his pipe and tobacco and an empty bottle, possibly once containing absinthe, all of which endangered his health. Modern research has intriguingly shown that absinthe itself can cause epileptic fits. Van Gogh had consumed this poisonous beverage in some quantity during the months in Arles, and many of his subsequent fits coincide with occasions on which he had access to it. The drawing board on which most of these objects are placed indicates van Gogh's resumption of work. He informed his brother that he was painting still-lifes to ease himself back into painting after his hospitalization. However, the colours used in this painting are more tempered and less intense, more controlled and less arbitrary than those he had been using both in the summer of 1888 and under the aegis of Gauguin in the autumn preceding his attack.",
    "21521": "Parmigianino's art offered the Parmesan aristocracy extraordinary opportunities for self-promotion. In his portrait of Gian Galeazzo Sanvitale, Count of Fontanellato, whose villa Parmigianino brightened with inspired variations on Correggio's frescoes in the Camera di San Paolo, the sitter's self-confidence is extraordinary. The count stares out at the viewer, calmly daring anyone to challenge his innate physical and intellectual superiority. In his right hand he displays a bronze medal marked with the mysterious ciphers \"7\" and \"2\", which must have had significance for him and his close circle of friends, but whose inscrutability serves to distance him from the rest of humanity.",
    "13739": "This painting is a collaborative work of Joris Abrahamsz. van der Haagen and Dirck Wijntrack. Van der Haagen painted the landscape (the woodland and the grass in the foreground), while Wijntrack, a specialist in wildfowls, executed the birds. Although two artists worked on this painting, it nevertheless forms a single entity.",
    "30852": "In the eighties Paolo returned once again to the theme of the Lord's Supper in the canvas painted around 1585 for the Venetian church of Santa Sofia, where it was until 1811 and now is in Brera. Here too the painter substantially modified the compositional structure he had adopted in the past for similar pictures. In particular, he changed the location of Christ, who no longer dominates the centre of the scene but is placed on the left-hand edge of the canvas, while the long table is now set diagonally instead of being viewed from the front. In addition, the triumphant architectural setting of the feasts he painted in the sixties and seventies has vanished completely and the event now takes place in modest surroundings, emphasizing Christ's message of humility and poverty.",
    "11271": "This is the first of the twenty-eight scenes (twenty-five of which were painted by Giotto) of the Legend of Saint Francis but this was painted probably last. A simple man spreads out his cloak before the young nobleman. He alone recognizes that Francis deserves such an honour. While Francis receives the tribute with a terse gesture, the other bystanders react with a lack of understanding. The scene of the action is clearly established, for the temple, which marks the distance between the main protagonists, is the Minerva Temple in Assisi, which can still be seen today.",
    "16910": "Ambrogio Lorenzetti frescoed the side walls of the Council Room (Sala dei Nove) of the City Hall (Palazzo Pubblico) of Siena. The size of the room is 2,96 x 7,70 x 14,40 m. The subject of the frescoes are the Good and Bad Government and their effects on the life of the cities and villages. The Effect of the Good Goverment is situated on the longer wall of the room. This panoramic fresco represents several scenes indicating the life of Siena and its environment in the 14th century. This detail shows the centre of the city. In the middle the dancing young women probably represent the nine Muses. There are several genre like scenes in the picture (shops, chatting men, riders, working men on the roof etc.)",
    "10868": "The detail represents the portrait of Lorenzo de' Medici (in the centre) with members of the donor family, the Sassetti.",
    "26689": "Michel Sittow worked for the leading noble houses of Europe. His portrait of Christian II reflects a king whose close family ties to the imperial Habsburg court drew in into the centre of European art and culture. On his subsequent travels and exile the king came into direct contact with the cultural centres of Europe.",
    "3009": "The left wing of the triptych represents the Paradise. Here, across the three inner panels, appear the First and Last Things, beginning with the Fall of Man on the left wing. The story recounted in the second and third chapters of Genesis has been placed in a lush garden; in the foreground we see the creation of Eve, followed by the temptation of the First Couple. In the middle distance they are driven from the garden by an angel. The expulsion of Adam and Eve from Eden is paralleled above by the expulsion from Heaven of the Rebel Angels, who are transformed into monsters as they descend to earth. Although the revolt of proud Lucifer and his followers is not mentioned in Genesis, it appears in Jewish legends and entered Christian doctrine at an early age. These were the angels who sinned and whose prince, envying Adam, caused him to sin in turn. It was further believed that Adam and Eve had been created by God in order that their offspring might fill the places left vacant by the fallen angels. In this panel, Bosch thus depicted the entrance of sin into the world and accounted for the necessity of the Last Judgment. The inclusion of the Fall of Adam and Eve in a representation of the Last Judgment is unusual; the other two panels of the Vienna triptych depart even more from traditional iconography.",
    "10584": "Gentile da Fabriano's painting is not a geometrically constructed composition. It should be read as if it were the text of a tale, beginning at the top left corner, where the three Magi, meeting at the seaside, notice the star they have to follow. If we follow their course among sloping hills and cultivated fields we can see how they march into Jerusalem under the frame of the central arch, while in the lunette on the right we can see them departing. In the middle distance the direction of their journey changes, proceeding towards us and suddenly the mass of people appears from a deep ravine flanked up by a precipitous rock and a fence. Now we can discern the faces too, and observe the smallest details of garments, arms and harness. Then the crowd, which can pride itself on hunters, noble chargers and exotic animals too, stops at the right-hand corner of the foreground, having reached its destination. Only here does the youngest King's page remove his master's spurs; having sunk to one knee the second King is on the point of handing over his gift, whereas the oldest, who has already presented his, is kneeling and kissing the Infant Jesus' foot. The elegant handmaids of the Virgin are taking delight in the lovely sight. In a masterly way Gentile da Fabriano launches, moves and stops this huge crowd of people. On the shores of the endless sea, underneath the left upper lunette, the figures of the three Magi on the summit of a mountain are surrounded by an atmosphere of cosmic stillness, while the march itself is exceedingly animated. Lively conversations are in progress, the horses are ambling and the limitless wonders of nature attract the travellers' attention. The scene of the Magi paying homage (also in the left-hand side) is calm again, emanating profound devotion and meditation. The somewhat dilapidated gate and the cave separate the principal characters from the episodes narrating what had happened earlier and it gives them some quiet in the otherwise overcrowded composition. The plentiful realism of details which Gentile da Fabriano produced achieved such convincing effects that it approached the Renaissance ideal of representing reality. He was not only able to depict objects accurately, but also every tiny change of facial expressions and the direction of glances establishing links between people. Nor did he forget the spectator, since the donor of the altarpiece, Palla Strozzi, standing behind the youngest King, is looking at us.",
    "7972": "The picture shows Arrival at the Hermitage, panel 7 from the series of 7 with unique compositions that share imagery, colour harmony and decorative motifs.",
    "3863": "Bruegel has portrayed over 250 children on this panel. They are playing with pieces of wood, with bones, with hoops and barrels - specially crafted toys were rare in the 16th century. Their faces often appear ageless: perhaps the painter wished to warn the observer against frittering away his life as if it were a childlike game.",
    "14941": "The panel is part of a cycle of paintings dedicated to the story of biblical heroine Esther, who would become the wife of Persian king Ahasuerus (better known as Xerxes) and do her best to protect the Jewish people against a plot organised by a court dignitary. Esther's story was considered an example for Renaissance women and this subject was often chosen to decorate the furnishings in the bridal chambers of the wealthier classes. Three panels from the cycle in the Uffizi, together with one in the Louvre and another in the Museum of Fine Arts, Budapest, certainly made up a \"cassone\" or other similar piece of furniture. The cycle consists of modest paintings but they are very characteristic of Florentine taste in the second half of the 15th century. To the right of the panel is King Ahasuerus, accompanying his wife Esther to Mardocheus, her cousin, in order to honour him and thank him for his loyalty, naming him his advisor. A moment from before the story is shown in the background. While he sleeps Mardocheus is plagued by dreadful foreboding in his dreams. When he awakes, he hears some court dignitaries conspiring against Ahasuerus, who is quickly warned of their plot. In the background, outside the city walls, we can see a hanged man who may be Aman, Ahasuerus's advisor who had tried to convince the king to kill all of the Jews and who had been unmasked by Esther, saving the fate of her people. The scene therefore captures different moments in the story and the architecture plays a notable role in organising the narrative and defining the sequence. The painting concludes the story of biblical heroine Esther.",
    "2921": "In the Christ Carrying the Cross, the head of Christ is silhouetted against a dense mass of grimacing soldiers and ill-wishers, one of them bearing the familiar toad on his shield. Christ's physical agony is heightened by the spike-studded wooden blocks which dangle fore and aft from his waist, lacerating his feet and ankles with every step. This cruel device was frequently represented by Dutch artists well into the sixteenth century. The high horizon is old-fashioned, as is the lack of spatial recession in the middle distance. In the foreground, soldiers torment the bad thief while the good thief kneels before a priest. The almost frantic intensity of his confession, well-expressed by the open-mouthed profile, contrasts vividly with the passive response of the priest who seems to suppress a yawn. The very presence of the priest is, of course, an anachronism, probably inspired by what Bosch had witnessed at contemporary executions; the same motif appears in the great multi-figure Christ Carrying the Cross which Pieter Bruegel the Elder was to paint almost a century later.",
    "1364": "The painting represents a portrait of an unidentified gentleman, bust length, wearing a black jerkin and white ruff. The physiognomy is well understood and the gradation of colour, shifting gently in pastel-like tones, is entirely typical of the artist.",
    "6335": "The painting presumably shows Jacques van Eyck, the chief justice of Antwerp in the bosom of his family. They gather on the terrace of their palace. The painting is relatively small but is provided with some essential attributes of the representative Baroque portrait.",
    "15196": "The huge Raising of Lazarus, one of four vast canvases painted by Jouvenet early in the eighteenth century for the church of Saint-Martin-des-Champs in Paris, is a tour-de-force of hes realistic vein combined with the elevated and idealized. Here the figure of Christ is somewhat over-bland and insufficiently assertive amid the agitated crowd gathered around the looming rocks of the tomb, but Mary, the sister of Lazarus, takes on the role of heroine, distressed yet decorous, and very consciously posed, in garments of gleaming white, gold, and green, to hold the centre of the stage. She is the embodiment of French academic classicism and could serve in comparable guise in many other pictures of the period. What she gestures towards, however, is dramatic in a different idiom: the stark moment of Lazarus's return from the dead, with him awakening in the deep cavernous gloom of his burial-chamber, lit only by a single torch, and experiencing hardly less violent and painful astonishment than do the figures gaping around him.",
    "5927": "The painting depicts an episode from the Odyssey (Bk 10). On their journey home after the Trojan War, Ulysses and his companions came upon the island of the sorceress, Circe. With a magic potion, she transformed the men into swine; however Ulysses, having been forewarned by Mercury and having taken an antidote, was able to resist her magic.",
    "10882": "This view shows the Coronation of the Virgin in the lunette of the window wall, and part of the vaulting with three of the four evangelists.",
    "24824": "This painting depicts a river rushing through a rocky northern landscape. Waterfalls were popular elements in the work of seventeenth-century Dutch masters such as Jacob van Ruisdael and Allaert van Everdingen, whose paintings clearly influenced Rombouts.",
    "24058": "The seated figure of a wise old man is outlined against an obscure background, his face and hands brightly illuminated by the light from a candle. It is a pose frequently seen in seventeenth-century portraits and one frequently used by Rembrandt himself. Although this is a portrait from life, the treatment of the subject evokes a biblical atmosphere. The picture is almost allegorical: the old man's attitude of meditation symbolizes the ephemeral nature of man's intellect. The light shining on his face is echoed in the glow from the back and the copper candlestick, familiar objects that give a feeling of warm intimacy. The picture was painted in the same year as the famous Night Watch.",
    "13200": "In this painting Saint Dominic is depicted, simply dressed in his black and white habit, in a moment of quiet piety in the wilderness, kneeling in prayer before a simple, model crucifix propped up against a rock. El Greco and his workshop painted St Dominic several times, either in an interior or outside. Though compositionally similar, no two versions are the same.",
    "26052": "Schiele attempted to explain the symbolism of the painting to Carl Reininghaus in the spring of 1912: \"It is not a grey sky, but a world in mourning in which the two figures move. They have sprung up here by themselves, an organic extension of the earth. This whole world, together with the two figures, is supposed to represent the transitoriness of everything essential. A single withered rose exhales its white innocence in contrast to the wreaths of flowers on the two heads. The one on the left bows before this solemn world; his flowers should appear cold, merciless.... I see the two figures as resembling a cloud of dust, like the earth, which rises of itself, only to collapse in exhaustion\". The figure on the right is said to represent Gustav Klimt, though there is no substantive evidence to support this identification. The resemblance between the figure on the left and Schiele is more apparent.",
    "24970": "A neurotic, even deformed stylisation that at times verges on the grotesque is the most immediate characteristic of Rosso Fiorentino's paintings, and can be glimpsed in this painting commissioned by Leonardo di Giovanni Buonafe (c. 1450-1545), \"spedalingo\" (i.e. rector) of the Hospital of Santa Maria Nuova in Florence. This \"Sacra Conversazione\" is called \"Pala dello Spedalingo\" (Rector Altarpiece). The altarpiece portrays the Virgin and Child between St John the Baptist, St Antony Abbot, St Stephen and St Jerome. The faces of saints, darkened by heavy shading, are utterly devoid of that serenity which characterizes the figures in traditional altarpieces. In the figure of St Jerome, the sunken abdomen, the prominent sternum, ribs and collar-bone of the chest area, and the skeletal thinness of the neck, arms and fingers, reveal unquestionable links with the studies of decomposing or flayed bodies that began to interest a great number of Tuscan artists from the 15th century. Buonafe saw the altarpiece before it was finished, and was horrified by the harshness of the saints, who seemed to him like devils; Vasari remarked that the finished painting would have been softer in effect. The picture was rejected, and it has been suggested that it was modified and sent to a church dedicated to San Stefano at Grezzano, outside Borgo San Lorenzo. In the altarpiece space is compressed, and the saints appear argumentative, and somewhat demented, rather than devilish, but there is already something of Rosso's later style in the stylised poses and consciously shocking treatment of the subject. The restlessness of the whole work contradicts a High Renaissance ideal: that of serene majesty. This accentuates the expressive dynamism of his compositions, whose colours and tones seem burnt or lividly overstated. The almost infernal aspect of some of his characters has given rise to a number of sometimes wild hypotheses about the painter's far-from-happy psychology. (He committed suicide.)",
    "12997": "Among the first of a number of artists to take a pictorial interest in Roman ritual, rather than in the traditional Christian iconography, was the young Provençal Granet, who while studying in Rome began painting church interiors with officiating clergy. This new genre anticipated the medievalism of his Troubadour compatriots and found a ready market. His haunting Crypt of San Martino ai Monti, a view of the vaults which were once part of the ancient Baths of Trajan, includes a female corpse in its white shroud, while a hooded priest and his acolyte prepare for the committal.",
    "23612": "This painting, which the literature today tends to ascribe to Giulio Romano rather than Raphael, shows the Madonna in the foreground casting an affectionate eye on the young Christ Child and St John the Baptist, who play in front of her. With one hand she makes a reassuring gesture toward her own mather, St Anne, who is represented in a meditative position. St Joseph sits in the background to the left under the shelter of several ruined classical buildings. On the right there is a serene landscape illuminated by touches of pinkish light. The painting was in the collection of Philip IV of Spain who gave the picture its nickname, La Perla, because he considered it the \"pearl\" of his collection.",
    "6468": "Virgin and Child enthroned, on their left SS. Francis and Anthony of Padua. The first painting by Correggio of which we have documentary record and authentic date. Still very Ferrarese in character but showing also Mantegna's influence.",
    "20262": "This painting is typically Spanish for its fervent pietism. The Infant is shown holding a spindle, referring to his attire at birth and at death, the miraculously expanding garment woven by his mother that lasted a short lifetime. The depth of emotion of the image is often found in Spanish religious art of later times.",
    "2677": "This still-life depicts fruit on a stone balustrade.",
    "5992": "In Ovid's Metamorphoses the Cumaean sibyl recounts how Apollo, trying to gain her love, offered anything her heart desired. So, forgetting how quickly youth passes, she picked up a handful of sand and asked the god to give her as many days as there were grains of sand in her palm. Claude sets this melancholic subject among overgrown ancient ruins. Thus, after thoughts of the perishability of human beings and their creations, the viewer can find consolation in contemplating the happy eternity of nature.",
    "24475": "Ferdinand Richter was a German painter, active in Italy. He worked for a time at the Medici court in Florence. Gian Gastone was the last of the Medici grand dukes. He is portrayed in the year of his death, with his beloved Florence - symbolized by Brunelleschi's miraculous dome - in the background. Until his unexpected succession, he had quietly studied plants in the Boboli gardens or enjoyed his collection of decorative arts. He attempted to be an enlightened ruler, but succumbed to depression and alcoholism.",
    "32384": "The subject was inspired by the 16th-century epic poem 'Gerusalemme Liberata' (Jerusalem Delivered) by Torquato Tasso (1544-1595). Rinaldo and Armida are a pair of lovers in the poem which is an idealized account of the first Crusade which ended with the capture of Jerusalem in 1099 and the establishment of a Christian kingdom. The painting, formerly entitled 'Sleeping Mars', was designed after Giovanni Battista Tiepolo who painted several versions of the subject. It has a pendant depicting Abraham with the three Angels.",
    "22690": "Seven paintings of the same size, representing the seven virtues, were commissioned from Piero del Pollaiuola in 1469 as the backs for chairs in the Audience Chamber in the Tribunale di Mercanzia in Piazza della Signoria, Florence. Six of these - representing Charity, Faith, Hope, Justice, Prudence and Temperance - were executed by Piero, while the seventh - Fortitude - was painted by the young Botticelli. The cycle was completed in 1472. The Tribunale di Mercanzia was the body that decided on the business disputes between Florentine merchants and administered justice among the guilds, known as the Arts. In the 18th century, the wealth and heritage of this judiciary went to the Chamber of Commerce, including the seven paintings of the Virtues, taken to the Uffizi Galleries in 1777. Temperance, considered as the capacity for moderation and the right measure, is shown here as a young woman in the process of mixing hot and cold water, pouring it from a ewer to a basin. According to Christian doctrine, she is one of the four cardinal Virtues, together with Fortitude, Justice and Prudence. This panel, together with Faith, was painted before summer of 1470, partly fulfilling the contract that obliged the painter to provide two panels with the Virtues every three months, starting from 1 January 1470, for a payment of 20 florins for each one. The careful depiction of the jug and metal basin, decorated with precious stones, reflects Piero's familiarity with goldsmithing, practised by his older brother, Antonio, at extremely high levels.",
    "10162": "According to the principle of selection and in a clear iconographical reference to Snyders, Fyt has assembled a bouquet of the finest, most striking birds. With his eye-strewn plumage, a peacock - the bird sacred to Juno, mother of the gods of antiquity - lends noble and radiant beauty to the whole picture. A Brazilian parrot, a crowing cockerel with a comb, a gallinaceous bird and two herons are each adding their own song to the cacophonous concert of cawing, screeching, squawking, crowing and cooing. Meanwhile, a jay looks wonderingly at a blank music book that has wedged itself in a bough, at the foot of which lies a dead dove.",
    "11260": "The picture shows the north wall of the third bay of the nave with scenes Nos. 4-6 of the Legend of St Francis and Scenes from the Old Testament in the clerestory.",
    "7786": "Although the dancers appear to be casually observed, the composition was meticulously worked out. The artist's fascination with form and structure is reflected in the analogy between the watering can (used to wet down the dust on the studio floor) and the dancer at the right. The handle on the side imitates her left arm, the handle at the top mimics her head, and the spout approximates her right arm and raised leg. Later in life Degas regretted this visual joke and wished to paint out the can, but the owner of the canvas, a friend of the artist, refused to allow Degas to retouch it.",
    "519": "Andrea di Bartolo and his shop specialized in small devotional pictures like this one, which was owned and used for personal meditations by the woman (donor) whose tiny figure we see kneeling in prayer at the bottom of the panel. The Virgin is dressed in gold brocade and is attended by angels in gestures of prayer and respect. From the flight of seraphim above, Christ blesses her and the child at her breast. Mary is honored here as the Queen of Heaven, yet she sits not on a throne but on a simple cushion on the ground. This type of representation, known as the Madonna of Humility, became quite popular after it was introduced in the 1340s, apparently by Simone Martini. Its symbolism may stem from the linguistic similarity between the Latin humilitas (humility) and humus (ground). Humility was held by church fathers as one of the greatest Christian virtues. The reverse of the double-sided panel depicts the scene of the Crucifixion.",
    "10701": "In expressing the predicament of the shipwrecked everywhere in the world, Géricault had laid the foundations of an aesthetic revolution. The Raft of the Medusa marks the first appearance in a painting of 'the ugly' and thereby proclaims its scrupulous respect for the truth, however repulsive the truth might be. This concern for truth is integral to the Romantic temperament. For his Salon picture in 1819, Géricault chose a dramatic episode - the wreck of the frigate Meduse, which had set off with a French fleet on an expedition to Senegal and had been lost in July 1816. The French admiralty was accused of having put an incompetent officer in charge of the expedition, the Comte de Chaumareix, a former emigre who had not commanded a vessel for twenty-five years. The picture was an enormous success, more on account of the scandal than because of an interest in the arts. However, Géricault only received a gold medal, and his picture was not bought by the government. Géricault was mortified and decided to exhibit his picture in England, where a pamphlet had been published on the wreck of the Meduse. He entrusted the vast canvas to an eccentric character named Bullock (as Lethière had done with his Brutus Condemning his Sons), and it was exhibited in London from 12 June to 31 December 1820, and in Dublin from 5 February to 31 March 1821. Géricault received a third of the takings, and the operation brought him in quite a large sum (probably 20,000 francs). The painting was priced at 6,000 francs at the posthumous sale of the artist's possessions. It was bought by Dedreux-Dorcy, a friend of Géricault, for an additional five francs, and he sold it to the State for the same amount. The most horrifying part of the shipwreck had been the drama of 149 wretches abandoned on a raft with only some casks of wine to live on, and the ensuing drunkenness and abominations. When the frigate Argus found the raft, after many days, she was only able to rescue fifteen survivors, of whom five died after being brought ashore. After some hesitation, Géricault chose this last episode - the sighting of the Argus by the survivors on the raft. Concerning the latter, he set himself to the task of carrying out an inquest as thoroughly as any examining magistrate. He rented a studio opposite the Beaujon hospital so that he could make anatomical studies of the dying. The picture was painted by Géricault in an extraordinary state of tension; 'the mere sound of a smile prevented him from painting'.",
    "7264": "This relatively early work by Creti depicts the figure of a Sibyl, an archetype that has deep roots in Bolognese art, perhaps most famously in the works of Reni, Guercino and Domenichino. As in the versions of these older masters, Creti has painted his Sibyl wearing a turban (practically an iconographic shorthand for an exotic, oracular figure), and holding up a book. He has chosen to paint her in profile, one of his favourite compositional devices, and one which allowed him to create idealized portraits of women of extreme elegance and originality.",
    "30759": "The ceiling painting in the sacristy of San Sebastiano, the Coronation of the Virgin, is framed by pictures of the four evangelists sitting, kneeling or reclining, accompanied by their symbols (eagle, ox, lion and angel), and, in their over life-size dimensions, they seem to burst out of the pictorial fields. In the four pictures, the open book is a reference to the subject as writer of the gospel of the same name.",
    "12868": "The youngest of the Magi was thought to be a likeness of Lorenzo the Magnificent. He is at the head of  a cortege which includes Cosimo de' Medici, Piero the Lame and his brother Giuliano. Lorenzo's face is characterized by shining eyes, a strong, square jaw and fine mouth. However, it is not probable since at the time the work was created, he was just ten years old.",
    "20058": "The sailboats on the Seine, which Monet often painted from his floating studio, were among his favourite motifs in Argenteuil. Because water mirrors the visual world, it is an element that is found again and again in Monet's pictures. The boats, the embankment, the house on the opposite bank, the trees, the bridge, and the all-enveloping sky are reflected in the water.",
    "10232": "This scene, at bottom right on the east wall, has a festive and cheerful character. The main action is not in the foreground but rather in the middle ground within the crowd of people that surrounds the ceremony. The scene is defined in the rear by a wall, but beyond the wall a luxurious garden is suggested.",
    "24464": "The picture shows the painting of the vault of the Cappella dei Santi Sacramento with Apostles in Veneration of the Eucharist, and the apse vault with the Throne of Grace. In conformity with the function of the chapel, the towering, highly animated apostles are shown gazing on the Eucharist in a brilliant aureole, framed by powerful rays of light and angels.",
    "25543": "This painting shows a still-life with a silver-gilt covered cup, glasses, a plate of oysters, a capon and a Chinese porcelain plate with sweets. The painting, that strongly resembled the works by Osias Beert, has recently been identified as by David Ryckaert II.",
    "9445": "The domestic setting, the fleeting glances, poses, and elegant dress are enlivened by effects of light and colour that the artist drew from his friend Ciardi. They combine to produce a serene, composed image of the family of engineer Guidini.",
    "10911": "In this detail Giovanna Albizzi-Tornabuoni is standing directly underneath the arch of a classical triumphal archway flanked by columns, just as if she were the main figure in the painting. In 1486 she married Lorenzo, the son of the donor. Vasari mistakenly thought she was \"Ginevra de' Benci, a most beautiful young girl living at the time\", whose portrait was painted by Leonardo da Vinci about 1478. Giovanna, who is standing stiff and rigid, is shown in sharp profile, wearing a magnificent gleaming gown and has an elegant hairstyle, unapproachable in front of her companions. The two figures stepping out through the classical gateway make it clear just how monumentally large, and how far away, the building behind them is.",
    "6699": "In 1858 Courbet stayed in Frankfurt where a studio was placed at his disposal in which young painters could watch him at work. Three major pictures date from his stay in  Frankfurt: The German Huntsman, The Hunters' Meal and the Woman of Frankfurt. The last of these constituted a new kind of painting for Courbet, a society portrait, staged with all the trappings this kind of commission required. It shows the wife of a Frankfurt notability in a sort of timeless state of incompletion relieved only by the features of the young woman savouring the late afternoon light from her terrace.",
    "10447": "In October 1888, Gauguin went to Arles on Vincent van Gogh's invitation, to try and build up an artists' community which van Gogh had long dreamed to create. Gauguin arrived on October 20. By December 25, all hopes had vanished, all plans were annihilated. There was the often told tragedy, van Gogh's abortive murderous attempt, when he slashed his own ear. Gauguin fled without ever seeing again his tempestuous friend, who was always to feel bitter about this. Gauguin painted the unflattering portrait of van Gogh during his stay at Arles. In this painting Gauguin has once again adopted the high viewpoint he had used in Still-Life with Three Puppies, which allows him to flatten the subject and treat it with the cloisonné style he had formulated in Brittany with Bernard. The subject, in particular the background, is treated as a configuration of flat colours, each compartmentalized and simplified, as in the enamel work from which. the style derived its name.",
    "21907": "Perugino like other artists reused, but perhaps more persistently than many, his own inventions and figural types. This Saint Sebastian is closely related to that in the Uffizi altarpiece. Now, however, Sebastian is the centre of attention, while a delicate landscape has been included, another specialty of the artist. The expressions of Perugino's religious figures can border on the saccharine but he renders them with a delicacy matched by few of his contemporaries.",
    "3065": "This sumptuous still-life shows peaches, grapes, a pear and white currants in a Wan-Li Kraak porcelain dish, with shells, a lizard and a butterfly on a ledge. It was executed during the 1630s, when Bosschaert was active in Utrecht.",
    "29441": "Asenath (or Asenith) is a figure in the Book of Genesis, an Egyptian woman whom Pharaoh gave to Joseph, son of Jacob, to be his wife. She bore Joseph two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, who became the patriarchs of the Israelite tribes of Manasseh and Ephraim, respectively. Her story is elaborated in the apocryphal Joseph and Asenath. There, she is a virgin who rejects several worthy suitors in favour of Joseph, but Joseph will not have a pagan for a wife. She locks herself in a tower and rejects her idolatry in favour of Joseph's God Yahweh, and receives a visit from an angel who accepts her conversion. A ritual involving a honeycomb follows, and Joseph now consents to marry her.",
    "19240": "The fresco shows the influence of Simone Martini's Maestà painted two years earlier in the Palazzo Pubblico in Siena. The paired figures to the left and right were added by Bartolo di Fredi when the fresco was enlarged in 1367. The fresco was repaired along the lower edge in the 1460s by Benozzo Gozzoli, who may have repainted the heads of the two figures to the far right.",
    "1275": "The subject is taken from Homer's Iliad. Zeus was in love with Thetis, a sea nymph, but received a prophecy that Thetis's son would become greater than his father, just like Zeus had dethroned his father to lead the succeeding pantheon of gods. In order to avoid such an outcome Zeus arranged for her to marry a human, Peleus. Peleus was very much in favour of such an arrangement, however, Thetis refused him. Proteus, an early sea-god, advised Peleus to find the sea nymph when she was asleep and bind her tightly to keep her from changing forms to escape. He did so, but she managed to shift shapes, becoming flame, water, a raging lioness, and a serpent. Peleus held fast and eventually the nymph was subdued and consented to marry him.",
    "28568": "The central part of the polyptych represents the Resurrection. Mannerist tendencies can be observed in the polyptych. The landscape background is of the highest quality, with recognizable view of Brescia. The bright figure of the ascending Christ is surrounded by clouds that are lit up by the red rays of the early morning sun. The light in the upper part of the painting forms a vivid contrast to the darkness of the tomb, where the only flashes of light are reflections from the guards' armour. This dramatic effect of the light supports the theological message of the Resurrection. Titian openly vies with sculpture in the figure of Christ, taking inspiration from the recently discovered Hellenistic statue of Laocoon.",
    "17639": "This painting shows Méry Laurent, the painter's lover. It displays all the characteristics of Manet's mature art: his spontaneity, freshness and generosity combined with rigorous composition, in which lines and curves stand out against a still-life of mirror, dressing table, flower-printed cretonne and wallpaper.",
    "19147": "The gold chalice with a serpent on the reverse side of the right wing is a symbol of redemption referring to the legend of St John the Evangelist who, ordered to drink a cup of poisoned wine, made the sign of blessing, and the venom was miraculously drawn from the liquid. The inner side of the panel represents St Veronica.",
    "23399": "The female portrait known as The Mute Woman represents a return to the influence of Leonardo. It certainly comes from the Florentine environment, for it was given in trust to the National Gallery of the Marches by the Uffizi, where it had been stored for several hundred years. It was attributed to Raphael only recently. Leonardo inspires mainly the pose of the figure (whose characteristically crossed hands constitute a very clear reference to the Mona Lisa). The neatness of the large areas of colour which emerge in lighter tones from the near-black background, and the analytical treatment of the details of the woman's clothing are characteristic of Raphael. The dispersive effect of this attention to detail is fully compensated by the tones of colour - used here in a fairly limited range - which unify the composition as a whole.",
    "2579": "Félicité-Louise de Durfort (1782-1870) was the youngest daughter of Count de Durfort, the pre-Revolutionary French Ambassador of France to the Republic of Venice (where died in exile in 1801). She is depicted standing in a simple high-waisted white dress, the splendid cashmere shawl draped over her right arm falling to the ground where the sun streams across it. Her hair is done in the latest fashion, while she is partially shaded by the splendid orange tree against whose large, painted wooden pot she is leaning. To the left we see some steps leading down to a winding path with a distant view of the Château of Balincourt.",
    "2432": "The painting shows a still-life of flowers in an earthenware vase on a ledge. It once belonged to the collection of Georg V, last King of Hanover before the unification of Germany in 1871. Following unification, the painting entered the Provinzialmuseum in Hanover.",
    "11166": "The altar-piece, called the Castelfranco Madonna, was in all probability commissioned by the Condottiere Tuzio Costanzo in memory of his son Matteo, who died in 1504: the Costanzo coat of arms can be seen on the base of the Virgin's throne. It can almost certainly be dated to 1505. Although it is not signed, the authorship is made indisputable by Giorgione's individual technique in laying on delicately shaded coats of paint without any underlying scaffolding from a drawing. The traditional scheme of composition is lightened by the novel use of such elements as the throne and the landscape, which takes up a good portion of the background. This smallish altarpiece echoes the artistic approach developed by Giovanni Bellini, who was probably one of Giorgione's teachers. Giorgione softens both the atmosphere surrounding the figures and that in the space before the viewer. This atmospheric veil has a palpable analogy with the methods of Leonardo da Vinci, who was known to have been in Venice in 1500 and it is possible that Giorgione had seen some works by the Florentine genius. Yet the figural proportions and the lacy landscape speak to a fully personal Giorgionesque idiom.",
    "4975": "Canvas No. 1 of the series of nine large paintings \"Stories from the Life of St Ursula\". The three paintings of the Ambassadors are evidence of the extent to which Carpaccio's feeling for colour had developed; in them the artist displays his extraordinary ability at directing or staging pageants and religious celebrations of the kind that must have been fairly frequent at the time. In the painting of the English Ambassadors' Arrival a at the Court of the King of Brittany, the first episode of the cycle of Stories from the Life of St Ursula, the splendid architectural setting, with the open loggia against the background of a view of Venice and the intimate space of the private room, divides the scene into two sections: the ambassadors deliver their message on one side and Ursula discusses the matter with her father on the other. The entire composition is arranged with absolute self-confidence and accuracy. In the diplomatic ceremony the afternoon light streams in from the left and illuminates the foreground, with patches of bright colours and sharp shadows. Below the wide portico that stretches out to the left with a row of arcades vanishing into the distance, alternating with areas of shadow, the elegant young members of the Compagnia della Calza are portrayed in poses of the most self-assured nonchalance, and showing indifference for what is happening nearby. To the right of the elaborate candelabrum, with marble and bright metal decorations, a sophisticated ornamentation that is reminiscent of the work of Ferrarese artists, the English ambassadors are received by King Maurus; they are portrayed in attitudes of deference and respect, in keeping with the rigid protocol governing public audiences granted by the Venetian Republican institutions at the time. The King sits, like the Doge, amidst his counsellors on a judgment seat against a wall covered in precious ornamented leather hangings, placed at an angle to the light and opening out onto a view of the city dominated by a round domed temple-like construction, reminiscent of Perugino and almost anticipating Baldassarre Longhena's Santa Maria della Salute. Just as the colours of the architecture are reflected in the water, so the shadows of the small figures fall like dark stripes on the red brick and white marble expanse of the square bathed in warm sunlight. Although the buildings and the landscape are quite definitely Venetian in character, it is not possible to identify them as specific constructions. And even the many identifications of the people in the painting with contemporaries of Carpaccio's are all purely hypothetical. The most fascinating theory is the identification of the man in the red cloak to the left, outside the main scene of the event, looking towards the spectator: he is traditionally supposed to be either Pietro Loredan, one of the patrons who commissioned the decoration of the Scuola, or a self-portrait. He stands in front of the iron banister enclosing the scene and appears almost to be drawing our attention towards the ambassadors and their message; like the young boy with the long feather on his cap who also looks out towards the spectator, a detail that was only recently (1983) rediscovered thanks to an excellent cleaning job. The nurse sitting at the far right in an attitude of resignation, on the other hand, introduces us to the conversation between Maurus and his daughter, which does not take place in an elegant and formal hall like the audience of the ambassador, but in the domestic intimacy of Ursula's bedroom. The King has abandoned all the official royal formalities imposed by protocol and simply listens to the conditions set out by his daughter. She will marry Ereus if she is granted a retinue of ten beautiful virgins; she and each of the ten shall further be assigned a thousand virgins each; and the young man who has asked for her hand shall be baptized and instructed in the faith for a period of three years. The two figures, father and daughter, are set against the canopy of the bed and the wall decorated with a devotional icon in an inversion of patches of colour that is almost an anticipation of the art of Paolo Veronese. And the harmony of colours with which Carpaccio depicts the old governess is equally masterful: she sits at the foot of the stairway leading to Ursula's bedroom and stares out into space, as though she knew what a tragic ending this royal wedding contract would lead to. Years later Titian was obviously so struck by this figure of the governess that he included a modern version of her in the Presentation of the Virgin that he painted between 1536 and 1538 for the Scuola Grande di Santa Maria della Carità.",
    "14096": "In this painting Heda took care to give the pewter jug a duller gloss than the silver vessels, and to make the lemon peel a brighter yellow than the soft ochre pie. This bring the still-life close to contemporary tonal landscape. There is another aspect (apart from the attempts to reduce the colours to a common denominator) and that is the curiously indeterminate space. The objects are put on a table, but the table is placed against a plain background which is strangely transparent with dull light. The still-life almost seems to float, like the mirage of trees on the still, reflective water in the river landscapes of Salomon van Ruysdael. Since the back-edge of the table is obscured from view, making a measurement of space is almost impossible. An occasional symbol may be slipped in the still-life. Here the peeled lemon symbolizes Deceptive Appearance: beautiful to look at, a lemon yet tastes sour.",
    "23656": "After having inspired Shakespeare for his tragedy Macbeth in 1606, the theme of witches is taken up by Verdi and Strauss in music, and several painters. Attracted by esotericism and the occult, Ranson also takes an interest in them and portrays naked witches on the Sabbath, accompanied by satanic black cats. They are gathered around a cauldron in which a hellish broth cooks, from which flames emerge in the shape of chimaeras.",
    "30117": "Vasari's contributions to the decoration of the Studiolo in the Palazzo Vecchio included the Perseus and Andromeda. The legend states that when Perseus held up the head of Medusa and plunged his sword into the dragon that was about to attack Andromeda, the dragon turned to stone and its blood, streaming through the water, turned to coral. In the background, stylised promontories sparkle with classical buildings, and on the beach workmen draw the dragon onto land with a huge winch.",
    "23425": "Plato and Aristotle are standing in the centre of the picture at the head of the steps. Diogenes is lying carefree on the steps to show his philosophical attitude: he despised all material wealth and the lifestyle associated with it. Below on the right is a great block of stone whose significance is probably connected with the first epistle of St Peter. It symbolizes Christ, the \"cornerstone\" which the builders have rejected, which becomes a stumbling block and a \"rock of offence\" to the unbeliever.",
    "23407": "Half-way between a work of private devotion and a collector's piece, this picture was probably painted just before Raphael's move to Rome. Rather more evident than the influence of Perugino is that of Leonardo, who perfected the `serpentine' pose in which the body twists about its axis, lending movement, grace and three-dimensional presence even to static figures. Characteristically, Raphael justifies this unnatural position through a narrative device: Catherine turns her head upwards and to her right in ecstatic communion with the divine light descending in thin gold rays from the sky. St Catherine of Alexandria is portrayed in a marvellous, twisted pose. Her left arm is leaning on her attribute, the wheel, and her right hand is pressed to her breast while she gazes up at a sky flooded with light. The composition is as rich in harmonious movement as the coloration is full and varied. The landscape is painted with particular care. Its light shading indicates a residual influence of Leonardo, although the jagged mountains which often characterize Leonardo's landscapes are absent. The delicate modelling of the saint, the slight torsion of her body as she leans on the wheel of her martyrdom (whose spikes have been reduced to rounded knobs in order to tone down the element of cruelty) fully express the balanced character of Raphael's art. The panel clearly shows the intense formal research which underlies Raphael's figurative creations. He is always careful not to excite emotions which he considers too intense and to mitigate tones and thematic elements in search of a perfect balance between design, colour, pose and expression, and between the figurative and ornamental elements.",
    "4030": "Blind people roamed the country in groups begging; they were part of the street scene. Bruegel has painted them with no trace of sympathy, but so accurately that it is possible for doctors today to diagnose the various eye disorders or the causes of blindness: the man on the left is suffering from leucoma of the cornea (so-called \"wall-eye\"), and the one on the right from amaurosis.",
    "16553": "The vaulting in the Strozzi Chapel contains depictions of Adam and the patriarchs Abraham, Jacob, and Noah. In the lunettes below are the depictions of the martyrdoms of St John (above) and St Philip (below). The patriarchs do not appear in their chronological, biblical sequence. Instead they have been placed so as to relate to the subject matter of the wall paintings below. Abraham and his sacrificial altar appear above the scene in which Philip refuses to make a pagan sacrifice. Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac also prefigures Christ's death on the cross, owing to which Philip himself was crucified. Noah, the earliest of the patriarchs, appears above the left wall. In general, he symbolizes salvation from death, and this is important in both of the scenes from the legend of John the Evangelist. Adam, who is normally not included in cycles of patriarchs, also has a direct connection to the subject matter of the window wall directly beneath him. His is the most prominent position, as he is visible even from outside the chapel and appears directly above the altar and the donor's tomb. He is clothed in the skin of a cow and holds a staff - both allusions to his life of struggle and toil after his banishment from paradise. Although it is he who first introduced Original Sin to the world, he was the first man whom the resurrected Christ chose to save as he passed through purgatory.",
    "26372": "That this scene is the masterpiece of the whole cycle (at least in terms of originality of invention and evocation of fantastic imagery) even Signorelli himself must have realized, and he has placed himself, together with a monk (traditionally identified as Fra Angelico) on the lefthand side of the composition. Wearing a black cap and cloak, as was suitable for a respected artist, an attractive and elegantly dressed man in his fifties as Vasari describes him, Luca Signorelli really looks like a director so pleased with himself for the success of his theatrical representation that he stands on stage for his deserved curtain call (Scarpellini).",
    "14686": "Pieter de Hooch moved to Amsterdam in 1661. While he had previously painted mostly working-class interiors, he from then on increasingly represented more affluent settings. Floors of wood and brick were replaced with marble tiles in which De Hooch creatively varied the patterns. The soldiers, maidservants and tavern frequenters gave way to ever more sumptuously attired and elegant figures. The present work fits in the painter's Amsterdam period.",
    "25502": "In the left background of this typical river view by Salomon van Ruysdael, the three-story Sint Jans Tower of the Grote Kerk in Gorinchem (or Gorkum) is visible. The entire foreground is devoted to vignettes of local travel. Two boats have pulled up at a steep bank, which is provided with a ladder. In the boat with two large fishing baskets astern, the owner gestures with hat to heart. At the inn, a rider addresses local folk at the door. The rendering of the architecture in the area of the mills and ramparts in the right background, seems to be faithful to judge from contemporary panoramic drawings of Gorinchem by other artists.",
    "30792": "Connected with Veronese's late output, the work has several times been ascribed to the artist's workshop on the grounds of the greater simplicity of the composition, wholly dominated by brownish tones. In fact the artist has taken an original approach to the composition with the sweeping seascape that characterizes the entire scenes; the gulf on the left is balanced on the right by the figures of the saint and the bystanders, arranged on parallel planes and along a diagonal that indicates the depth of the space in which they move. The Franciscan saint, holding the traditional white lily, is represented standing on a tongue of land, preaching and pointing at the sea, where we can see the fish that have risen to the surface to hear his words. Anthony towers over the others; the pose, expressing the passion of his oratory, recalls that of many of Veronese's figures. His gesture, which serves to articulate the downward slope of the scene toward the edge, is echoed by the figures seen from the back, both the one in the middle, in a Manneristic attitude, and that of the Oriental in the foreground. The figures wearing turbans - as was customary in the art of Venice - render the sacred content of the representation \"ecumenical.\"",
    "16226": "The subject of this painting was probably taken from a work by the Romantic poet Ludwig Uhland, who was extremely popular among the Düsseldorf artists. This imaginary historical scene reflects a tendency to idealize the remote past that was connected with the beginnings of the movement for German national revival. Thanks to this topicality, Lessing's painting achieved great success at the Berlin exhibition of 1830.",
    "28181": "This still-life is composed of shot wildfowl, crayfish and fruit.",
    "22231": "This is one of the two paintings by Piero that is dated. Recently it has been restored, and all the later additions have been removed from the background and the sky. We can now see, in the crystal-clear lighting, behind the hermit saint, a receding background with the perfectly straight tree trunks reflected in the winding river. The clear sky is barely dotted with little white pointed clouds.",
    "30735": "This painting is on the wall of the chancel (presbytery) of the church of San Sebastiano. The Golden Legend of Jacopo da Voragine tells the story of the brothers Mark and Marcellinus and the events before their execution in great detail. The attempts by their despairing parents to get the two martyrs, strengthened in their faith by St Sebastian, to change their minds and abandon their faith is the subject of the crowded scene, which sticks very closely to the textual source. Idealized architecture conforming to the forms of Palladio and Sansovino provides the setting for the dramatic event. According to Ridolfi, the two paintings intended for the side walls of the \"presbytery\" were completed in 1565. This seems a credible date, and fits well with the report that Federico Zuccaro, who spent two and a half years in Venice from 1563, made drawings from both works.",
    "21609": "This meditative master is unparalleled in his power of absorbing the parable of some Biblical episode or the meditation of St Anthony into a natural scene in which he makes us completely forget the picture's dimensions through the amplitude of what it suggests. We have before us space painted, time and space rendered sensible to our eyes. In his St Jerome, those bluish vistas fade beautifully into the distance under wide white skies. The painter has an exquisite way of sketching in tiny people, farms and groups of houses, or of leaving some animal - a goat or a bird - straying among the slaty blue of his rocks.",
    "22277": "The Forest Fire contains a disjunctive narrative with animals fleeing the fires. Human figures either flee also or concentrate on bringing water to the fire. The composition is not firmly set. Instead, Piero loosely divided the picture by the placement of trees. The decorative richness of the work and the transparent beauty of the glowing distances in the forest and rich, coral colours can now be appreciated after a recent cleaning.",
    "23577": "Raphael's pupils - among them Giulio Romano, Gianfrancesco Penni, Vincenzo Tamagni, Perin del Vaga and Polidoro da Caravaggio - executed the cycle of the Bible stories. The episodes were painted in the ceiling vaults, within differently shaped frames. Together they form a swarm of figures, isolated and in groups, arranged in an extraordinary variety of compositions and poses.",
    "18396": "Based on its style the Annunciation is attributed to the Master of Flémalle and dated between c. 1415 and 1425. The painter's provisional name refers to the \"Abbey of Flémalle\" where certain of his works are assumed to have been painted. However, in this village near Liège there was never any abbey. Today the master is commonly identified with the Tournai artist Robert Campin. The scene takes place inside a bourgeois dwelling, a novelty in the painting of the time, as until then the scene had always been depicted in or in front of a church. In line with tradition, Gabriel enters the room from the left. The Virgin is seated in front of a low bench on the tiled floor, a sign of her humility. The edge of her mantle is decorated with an inscription, another innovation of the Master of Flémalle. Its text appears to be inspired by the popular medieval Marian hymn Salve Regina. The Virgin's gestures illustrate her acceptance. Her right hand rests on her breast, her eyes modestly cast downwards. On Mary's lap is an open book, a second one lies on the table. This motif is possibly taken from devotional tracts of around 1400, which state that the Virgin was meditating on the Holy Scriptures when Gabriel entered. The books also indicate her as the possessor of divine wisdom. In this connection, the bench is decorated with little lions, as was once the throne of Solomon, the Old Testament king who used to be seen as the epitome of wisdom. The stained glass figures possibly represent prophets who foretold the coming of the Messiah. Other apparently everyday objects also have an additional, deeper significance. The hand broom next to the chimney symbolises the purification from the stain of sin, and the white lilies in the maiolica vase Mary's virginity. The open window probably alludes to her honorary title as 'fenestra coeli', the window of heaven. The candles and their holders refer to Christ and the Virgin. The fact that the candles are snuffed out indicates that conception has already taken place. One intriguing detail is the woodcut above the chimney, depicting St Christopher carrying the Child across the river. This motif is a good illustration of the chronological jumps frequently found in the paintings of Flemish Primitives, as according to the main scene, depicting the Annunciation, the Saviour has not even been born!",
    "2954": "The picture shows a detail of the right wing which represents the bird-headed monster. The bird-headed monster at lower right gobbles up the damned souls only to defecate them into a transparent chamber pot from which they plunge into a pit below. Other sins can be identified in the area around the pit. The slothful man is visited in his bed by demons, and the glutton is forced to disgorge his food, while the proud lady is compelled to admire her charms reflected in the backside of a devil.",
    "12806": "Like Jacob van Ruisdael, Van Goyen painted sky for the most part, in this case a sombre mass of clouds. The landscape, offering a view of the watery area near Haarlem called the Haarlemmermeer, is painted in several closely related  shades of brown, ochre-yellow, blue, and green. The tonal colour scheme contributes to the specifically Dutch atmosphere of this landscape, in which sky and water form the most important elements.",
    "1781": "The Confraternity of the Scuola Grande di San Giovanni Evangelista in Venice called upon the most respected Venetian painters of the period, including  Pietro Perugino, Vittore Carpaccio, Gentile Bellini, Giovanni Mansueti, Lazzaro Bastiani and Benedetto Diana to paint nine canvases for the Great Hall of their headquarters showing the Miracles of the Holy Cross, the story of the miracles performed by the fragment of wood from the Cross on which Jesus was crucified. This fragment had been donated to the brotherhood in 1369 by Philip de Mezières, Chancellor of the Kingdom of Cyprus and Jerusalem, and had soon become an object of great veneration and the symbol of the Scuola, one of the most important and wealthy Venetian confraternities. The canvas painted by Perugino has been lost, but the eight surviving paintings executed between 1496 and 1501, contain depictions of some of the most famous parts of Venice. Since the imposing series of pictures (known as 'teleri') are all in the Accademia now it is easy to compare them: we notice immediately the basic difference between the archaic choice of images, sometimes portrayed purely as a sort of inventory, offered by the older artists and the new, lively depictions of the city painted by Carpaccio. Gentile Bellini painted three of the teleri. The first is dated 1496 and represents the miraculous intervention of the Holy Cross in St Mark's Square on 25th April, 1444 on the occasion of the Feast of the Holy Cross. During the procession a merchant from Brescia by the name of Jacopo de' Salis knelt before the relic of the Holy Cross being carried by the members of the Confraternity and prayed that his dying son should be saved. The son recovered immediately. In the incomparable wide angle view the spectacle of St Mark's Square and the ceremony taking place unfold. On the left, the Procurate Vecchie are still the one-storey buildings there since the time of Doge Sebastiano Ziani (1172-1178); the Gothic buildings which lie beyond were demolished in the early sixteenth century to make way for the construction of the Clock Tower designed by Coducci. At the end of the square the Basilica of St Mark's still glows with the gold of the marble decorations and the Veneto-Byzantine mosaics of which only one that survives is the one above the arched doorway on the left. The Porta della Carta too stands splendid in its original gilded marble decorations, a brilliant caesura between the Basilica and the Palace of Doges. On the right, grouped around the base of the campanile stands the cluster of buildings including the Orseolo Hospice which was to be demolished in the sixteenth century so that the Procuratie Nuove could be built in its place as part of the plan for the Square produced by Jacopo Sansovino. The ancient buildings reflect the reddish bricks of the floor of the square which remained until Tirali changed them for the present grey slabs of stone patterned with white marble in 1723. The painter's attention was no less committed when reporting the procession. While the members of the government with the Doge at their head preceded by the standard-bearers, the trumpeters and the symbols of power, are level with the campanile, the members of the Confraternity stand out in the foreground, dressed in the white of the Scuola. In the middle of the group escorted by candle-bearers a canopy covers a golden 'soler' on which is carried the precious relic of the Holy Cross. Reality in the scene is treated faithfully and in minute detail and to encompass the whole event the perspective is widened artificially. In this 'mediaeval' canvas Gentile Bellini achieves a choral grandeur within which he fixes his portrait of men and buildings.",
    "22629": "In contrast to Van der Poel's nocturnal pictures, this painting shows a brightly sunlit farmyard. In the foreground various farm animals go about their business surrounded by a jumble of baskets and buckets, a barrel, a wheel, a harness, a broken pot, a shoe, and an old hat. The farmer has climbed up a ladder to inspect a dovecote. The yard is enclosed by buildings and a fence, allowing only a glimpse of the land beyond. Van der Poel does not attempt a truthful portrayal of life on a farm with all its hardships and inconveniences. He presents, rather, an idealized image of rural tranquillity that was meant to appeal to the ideals of an urban clientele.",
    "15786": "Lancret is regarded alongside Jean-Baptiste Pater as the most important representative of the many artists influenced by Watteau, most of whom chose individual motifs or groups from his \"fete galante\" and made them independent themes. This process alone is indicative of a specific tendency in Rococo: the tendency towards small scale, intimate scenes. In Lancret's painting The Swing we find a highly popular motif of the time, treated not only by Fragonard, Boucher and Pater, but also by lesser painters of the era. Just what made the swing such a popular theme becomes clear here. It is not only the erotic aura, whose \"moment of happiness\" is to be found in a glimpse under the petticoats, but also the fact that the swing is a metaphor of an interim realm belonging neither to the earth nor to the air. It remains intangible, allocated neither to an element nor to a physical place. Non-committal coquettishness, the freedom of intimacy, the bonds that do not tie: all these are evoked by the rope with which the desiring cavalier is moving the swing, not as a symbol, but certainly as an obvious suggestion.",
    "16567": "Lippi probably received the commission for this painting from Monsignor Vitelleschi, the Archbishop of Florence from 1435 to 1437. Vitelleschi owned a palace at Corneto, and had close family ties to that city's Augustinian convent of San Marco, where Lippi's Madonna and Child seems to have once been housed. As a dated work it is an important monument for the reconstruction of Lippi's career. (The painting is dated on a card at the base of the throne which reads \"A. D. M. MCCCCXXXVII\") The painting is characterized by its spatial and perspectival structure, and a plastic quality in the figures that directly recalls the work of Masaccio. It documents a precise phase of the artists career before the influence of Fra Angelico became prevalent and before the artist began to distance himself from his interest in perspectival space. Lippi painted this work after his return from North Italy, where more consistent contacts with French, German, and Netherlandish painting can be assumed. The close affinity between Lippi's style in this period and Flemish painting has led some scholars to hypothesize a voyage to Flanders in around 1435. If indeed Lippi did make such a trip, he would have come into direct contact with the work of Robert Campin and Rogier van der Weyden. The figures are substantial, especially the Child, whose large head, thick limbs, and heavy trunk are almost grotesque, as is the Child's inexplicable pose. The Madonna, with her nearly round head, a characteristic type for Lippi, her rigid right arm and squarish, stumpy hands with short fingers, and the ponderous, almost exaggerated draperies continue in his art. The perspective is also somewhat forced, but the sharply foreshortened upper shutter of the window is adventurous. Another effective feature of the painting is the vigorous light and shadow used both for building forms and for illumination within the interior space, although the source of light is not consistently distributed.",
    "31746": "The scenes in the side panels depict the advent of the Son of God on earth being announced in miraculous visions to the Roman emperor Octavian (Augustus) and to the three Magi. The Christ Child receives the homage of both East and West, that is to say the whole world as displayed in the panorama of the open triptych: the West is symbolized by the Roman empire - which was regarded as the direct predecessor of the medieval Holy Roman Empire - the East by the Magi, and between them stands the Holy Land with Bethlehem, to the medieval mind the centre and navel of the world. The visions seen by these ruler are taken from a text popular at the time, but never previously illustrated in this form: the chapter on the Nativity in the Legenda Aurea (Golden Legend, a collection of tales of the saints written around 1270 by the Dominican monk Jacobus de Voragine (1228/29-1298). However, there were certain problems involved in illustrating it in realistic detail. It was particularly difficult to present Octavian's vision of the Madonna on an altar hovering in the sky, not borne up by angels or similar figures. Rogier solved this problem by seating the Virgin on an obviously heavy altar, so closely framed by the opening that she looks almost like a picture within the picture, providing an optical focus. The donor clearly wanted the text of the legend illustrated literally, and he must at first have asked for actual quotations too, although they were eventually omitted, to the benefit of the work as a whole: infrared photography shows that all the scenes originally contained scrolls to hold wording. The left-hand picture, for instance, was to quote the words miraculously heard by Octavian, according to the legend, on seeing the vision: Haec est ara coeli (\"This is the altar of Heaven\"). However, during the execution of the triptych it obviously became clear that the pictures would make their point even without any explanatory text, and the wording was overpainted. Such a decision cannot have been taken without the consent of the patron who commissioned the altarpiece, and perhaps it may have been made during a conversation between Rogier and his client when the latter visited the artist's studio.",
    "8824": "Dürer did not paint these four paintings on commission. It was he who wanted to donate them to Nuremberg, his native city. On 6 October 1526 the artist offered The Four Holy Men to the city fathers of Nuremberg: 'I have been intending, for a long time past, to show my respect for your excellencies by the presentation of some humble picture of mine as a remembrance; but I have been prevented from so doing by the imperfection and insignificance of my works... Now, however, that I have just painted a panel upon which I have bestowed more trouble than on any other painting, I considered none more worthy to keep it as a memorial than your excellencies.' As it was common in many cities in Italy to bestow the town hall with a work of art that would serve as an example of buon governo, so did Dürer want to provide his native city with a work of his that had been purposefully made to this end. The council gratefully accepted the gift, hanging the two works in the upper government chamber of the city hall. Dürer was awarded an honorarium of 100 florins. The four monumental figures remained in the municipality of Nuremberg until 1627, when, following threats of repression, they had to be sold to the elector of Bavaria, Maximilian I, a great enthusiast of Dürer's work. On that occasion, however, the prince had the inscriptions, at the bottom of the paintings, sawed off and sent back to Nuremberg, as they were considered heretical and injurious to his position as the sovereign Catholic. The city handed them over to the museum in Munich in 1922, where they were rejoined with their respective panels. Despite the presence of the Evangelist Mark, the pair of panels with their slightly larger than life-size figures have since the 1530s usually been called `The Four Apostles', although The Four Holy Men is a more accurate title. John the Evangelist stands on the far left, holding an open New Testament from which he is reading the first verses of his Gospel. Behind him is the figure of Peter, holding the golden key to the gate of heaven. On the other panel, standing at the back, is the Evangelist Mark, with a scroll. On the far right is Paul, holding a closed Bible and leaning on the sword - a reference to his subsequent execution. The Four Apostles, witnesses to the faith, were to simultaneously function as a warning. For this, their figures had inscriptions affixed that the calligrapher Johann Neudörfer had added to the bottom of the panels, which reproduced biblical passages from the recent translation of Martin Luther (1522). The first line of both are references to the Apocalypse of St John (22:18 ff.), but the essential content has another origin: it is a reproach to the secular powers not to conceal the divine word in seductive human interpretation. Besides, it reads that everyone should take the warning of the \"four excellent men\" to heart: almost a formulation of the symbolic program represented in the choice of the four figures, of three apostles and an evangelist, Mark, an unusual choice that Dürer does not explain or illustrate. The Four Apostles undoubtedly represents his personal religious credo through the inscriptions. His position is to be on guard against the \"false prophets.\" This becomes understandable if one considers the political-religious background of that time and the violence and passion of the religious upheavals, which favoured the onset of false doctrines. Dürer knew that his support of the Lutheran movement, which surely came out from the words of the inscriptions, would have been shared by important and influential citizens; in fact, different from the majority of Nuremberg sovereignties, firmly embraced Protestantism in toto. In his Bulletin on the Artists and Artisans in Nuremberg of 1546, the aforementioned Neudörfer writes that Dürer wanted to represent a sanguine, a choleric, a phlegmatic, and a melancholic. It is possible to subdivide them according to the following attributions: John would be the sanguine, Peter the phlegmatic, Paul the melancholic, and Marco the choleric. In addition, each temperament would correspond to one of the four ages of life. Preparatory drawings exist for the heads in Berlin and Bayonne . Although some scholars had believed that the two figures at the back of the pictures, Peter and Mark, had been added later by Dürer, a technical analysis in the 1960s showed that the paintings had originally been conceived with the four men. This examination also confirmed that they were made as a pair, not as wings of a triptych. These are Dürer's last known oil paintings, done when he was 55. They represent his spiritual testimony and are among his most powerful works.",
    "13014": "Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Damascus, was a leper. He was advised to seek out Elisha, the disciple of the Hebrew prophet Elijah, who bade him wash seven times in the river Jordan in order to be cured. Naaman did so, in spite of misgivings, and \"his flesh was restored as a little child's\" (II Kings 5:1-19). As a reward Naaman offered Elisha many gifts, which the latter refused, explaining that the cure had come only from Heaven. For the figure of Elisha on the right of the composition de Grebber appears to have used the same model as for a similar figure seen in profile for his Conferring of the Sword on the Coat-of-Arms of Haarlem.",
    "16645": "The two panels representing St Anthony Abbot and St Michael were originally part of a triptych made for Alfonso of Naples. The central panel, which depicted the Adoration of the Child, is lost.",
    "18660": "The Master of the Housebook was a witty, animated artist known from a series of courtly sketches. He was possibly active in Bruges, Freiburg, Mainz, and Ulm, where he was in the employ of Emperor Maximilian. A Passion Altar of c. 1475, now divided between Berlin, Frankfurt am Main, and Freiburg im Breisgau, conveys this master's rare gift for humanity, the physiognomies intense but beyond caricature. The Last Supper, part of the Passion Altarpiece, is seen in old-fashioned perspective, with the figures in the foreground smaller than those at the far end of the table. It includes the traditional group of Christ comforting St John, who is so overcome by learning of the Betrayal that he buries his head in Christ's lap. Judas, in the foreground, consoles himself by weighing his purse - payment for the Betrayal.",
    "31107": "Flora is the personification of spring and the synonym of youth, joy of living, abundance, wealth and fertility. Claude Vignon presented the ancient Roman goddess as a decorative showpiece with an air of elegant sensuousness. Originally the painting had an oval setting, with Flora not at the centre but placed a little to the left, which corresponded better to the dynamic conception of Baroque art.",
    "24275": "Jean Restout came of a family of painters and did many religious and mythological pictures, and worked for a time for Frederick the Great. This enormous canvas, a masterpiece of 18th-century religious painting, once adorned the refectory (dining room) of the Abbey of Saint-Denis outside Paris. With its exaggerated view from below and the extreme perspective of the rows of columns to the left and right, the work is reminiscent of Baroque ceiling paintings.",
    "9916": "The detail shows the Holy Family on the right side of the painting.",
    "19145": "The reverse side of the left wing, depicting St John the Evangelist, represents a skull, the symbol of transience.",
    "30123": "The picture shows part of the ceiling decoration of the Sala di Apollo (Apollo Room), one of the two bedrooms in the house. The supporting vaults represent the Nine Muses. On the present vault Erato, Polyhymnia and Terpsychore can be seen. Erato, the goddess of conjugal love, has the features of the artist's wife.",
    "15977": "Le Gros' artistic makeup was such a successful synthesis of Italian and French elements that he never lacked work; his commissions, however, frequently embodied retardataire taste, none more so than the extraordinary multicolored St Stanislaus Kostka on his Deathbed. Here Le Gros'work looks back to the tradition of ecstatic or dying saints created by Bernini and Cafà, but instead of a white marble figure set off by coloured marbles, colour forms an integral part of Le Gros' work: black touchstone for the Jesuit habit, Sicilian jasper and yellow marble for the bedding, and gilt bronze for the fringe. The saints hands, feet and head are carved from white Carrara marble, with the hair left rough and unpolished and the nails and eyes delicately incised. The work's purpose was to shock visitors entering the room where the young man once lived, by conveying the impression of someone actually dying, and the Jesuits resisted Le Gros' attempts to have the sculpture moved from their novitiate to the church of Sant'Andrea al Quirinale, largely because of its effectiveness in its intended setting.",
    "26373": "The detail shows the self-portrait and the portrait of Fra Angelico.",
    "17946": "This impressive view of the entrance to the Grand Canal is dominated by Santa Maria della Salute, built between 1631 and 1687 by Baldassare Longhena in gratitude for the conclusion of the disastrous plague which had struck Venice in 1630. The veduta is taken from the loggia of the monastery of San Gregorio on the corner of the Grand Canal and the Rio della Salute. The Rio separates the monastery from the Campo della Salute and is visible in the foreground on the right. Just beyond the basilica, on the same side of the canal, is the episcopal seminary. Above the adjacent blind wall we see the tower of the Dogana da Mar. On the left side of the canal parts of Palazzo Manolesso and Palazzo Contarini Fasan can just be seen. Further in the background we can spot the Campanile of San Marco. Finally, on the horizon, the buildings of the Riva degli Schiavoni and the Castello area can be descried through the masts of the boats. The water, meanwhile, is dotted with gondolas and cargo boats, one of which is loaded with cases marked 'Roma', 'Vienna:' and 'M:S:', the last possibly Marieschi's signature. The vessels, such as the boat with the lateen sail at the quay, are closely observed. The mast of the boat with the lateen sail divides the scene in two equal halves, while the long, crooked yard and the quay wall, arranged almost perpendicular to the picture plane, serve to balance the composition. The veduta spans a wide angle, roughly one hunderd fifty degrees. Two vanishing points, one on the extension of the quay line and the other outside the image to the right, make the corner which closed off the Campo della Salute sharper than it is. Besides this deformation, as it were, of the square, it is remarkable how the lowest part of the church seems to move toward the spectator whereas the large dome withdraws. The effect resembles that of a fish-eye lens; Marieschi may have used a camera obscura in making this painting. It is precisely the uncorrected deformations in this spectacular composition that distinguish it from Canaletto's treatment of the same motif. Marieschi's older colleague gives us a considerably more peaceful, more balanced view (Royal Collection, Windsor).",
    "4492": "This is one of the four paintings ordered in 1725 from Canaletto by Stefano Conti, a textile merchant and collector from Lucca. Canaletto described the first painting, saying that it showed \"the Rialto Bridge from the side facing the Fondaco dei Tedeschi, across from the buildings where the magistrates of, for instance, the Camerlenghi work. These buildings border the market where all sorts of fruits and vegetables are unloaded for distribution to shops all over the city. Painted in the middle of the canal is a distinguished-looking sloop with figures in it being rowed swiftly across the water and, nearby, another gondola being rowed by the liveried servants of the imperial ambassador.\" In these canvases Canaletto was apparently striving for the greatest verisimilitude, in which he succeeded by virtue of his great ingenuity and artistic sensibility. The curvature of the river is beautifully rendered in an arc flowing from the approaching sloop, under the dark bridge and on to the sunlit area beyond. This movement is effected by the curving roofline on the left and by the gondolas crossing the canal in the foreground, which binds the composition horizontally. As in so many other cases Canaletto was not the first to represent this particular cityscape; there is an early eighteenth-century print of the same subject by Filippo Vasconi which, in turn, is based on an etching by Israel Silvestre from the mid-seventeenth century. Here, too, Canaletto must have planned his composition with the help of two, now lost, preparatory drawings covering an angle of approximately ninety degrees. The compositional sketch (c. 1725, Ashmolean Museum, Oxford) for the painting has survived and in it we can see how the master combined the two views, creating an effect similar to that of a photograph produced by a wide-angle lens.",
    "13279": "This painting is the essence of Greuze, compositionally as well as in other ways. His preferred setting is an interior, a shallow stage-like area, normally with one right-angled wall; the figures are assembled in a loosely-knit frieze across the composition, a tendency increasing in his later work. Greuze concentrated on human nature, excluding the natural world and simplifying the setting so as not to distract from the gamut of emotions expressed by the faces. Each figure expresses an individual reaction to the moment. Disunity in the family is prophesied, for the mother tearfully must part with her daughter, whose younger sister is also saddened, while her elder is sullenly envious. The tearful, yet ineffective females contrast with the trio of men: the dignified father praising his daughter and exhorting his future son-in-law, a serious young man who receives girl, dowry and exhortation, and the sly peasant notary who literally documents the occasion and reminds us that it is as much legal as domestic.",
    "20704": "The sitter, Anne Larcher, Countess d'Argenson, was the daughter of an enormously wealthy Councillor of the Paris Parlement, Pierre Larcher, Seigneur de Pocancy, from one of the most ancient and distinguished families. A great heiress, she was married shortly after her eleventh birthday to the scion of one of the most ancient noble families of Touraine, Marc-Pierre de Voyer, Comte d’Argenson, Viscomte de Paulmy, Baron de la Haye (1696-1764). The Countess, a stately but beautiful woman of thirty-seven, wears a magnificent décolleté off-white satin gown held by a pearl belt and arm bracelets. She wears no other jewelry and is holding in her lap a small, clipped spaniel.",
    "13166": "This signed painting repeats the composition of the central painting of the altarpiece in the Capilla de San José in Toledo. A concentration on depictions of St Joseph in Spain began with an emphasis on his worship by Theresa of Ávila (1515-1582; canonized in 1622), who would become Spain's national saint. El Greco's choice of an elongated figure against a background of agitated sky would subsequently be extended to the depiction of other figures.",
    "5378": "Of the paintings in Santa Cecilia, the most important is the fragment of the Last Judgment that extends the entire width of the west wall. It depicts Christ in judgment in the centre, seated on a wooden throne that is decorated with pearls and precious stones and was at one time partially gilded. He is surrounded by a red mandorla. The enthroned Christ is facing the viewer, but he is looking to the side. His right hand is extended toward the blessed; the left hand, which has not survived, would have been raised and presumably outstretched toward the damned in a dismissive gesture. The wounds on his feet, hands, and chest are displayed. Despite being damaged, this image of Christ sitting in judgment surrounded by the angelic hosts reveals Pietro Cavallini's sense of monumental power. The measured frontal view comes from the Byzantine tradition while the warm tones of the colours and the play of the light are definitely new.",
    "13302": "The expressive head exercises of girls and boys by Greuze were quite popular and became one of the painter's specialties. With the face leaning to the left and a pensive look, the girl in the present painting seems deep in thought.",
    "28670": "Between 1553 and 1554 Titian executed for the Habsburgs two classical mythological works of clearly erotic intent which he himself described as \"poesie\" (mythological fables). These are the Danaë with a Nurse and the Venus and Adonis, both now in the Prado, Madrid. The Venus and Adonis became the prototype for a whole series of replicas of this subject. Venus, the goddess of love, falls in love with Adonis, a beautiful youth. Her love is not, however, enough to stop him pursuing his favourite pastime, hunting, which will lead to his undoing, for he is gored to death by a boar. There is an interesting letter from Titian to Philip II which deals with this painting. The artist makes a special point of mentioning that he was particularly interested in depicting the body from both sides. In both paintings the scene of the union of the lovers is bathed in the warm light of sunset, where the diffuse softness of the colours holds sway. The female nudes reveal the continuing inspiration of Michelangelo's sculpture, such as the Dawn and Night from the Medici tombs in Florence. But what is entirely personal to Titian is the quality of the colour, which fragments into patches of dazzling luminosity - a perfect complement to the ecstatic sensuous abandon of the figures. In its own day Venus and Adonis was considered one of Titian's most erotic works, especially in the compression of Venus' buttocks in her seated pose, but it also suggests the indulgent condescension of a younger man towards the frantic and overprotective reaction of an older woman.",
    "10204": "The Gothic apse of the Santa Croce was decorated by frescoes in the 1380s. On the two side walls the story of the Saint Cross is depicted, the Triumph of the Cross being the final and most significant scene of the cycle. There are three scenes depicted beside and above each other. On the left side the beheading of Chosroes, King of Persia, for the occupation of Jerusalem and robbing the Cross; behind and above Heraclios arriving to Jerusalem with the regained Cross; on the right side Heraclios bringing the Cross barefooted into Jerusalem. There is no difference in the size of the figures, thus no spatial perspective. The majority of the figures are illustrated in profile. Traditionally it is believed that the man standing beside the executioner is the painter himself.",
    "17743": "The central part represents the Madonna and Child Enthroned (212 x 125 cm), the left part shows Saints Peter and Paul, Saint John the Evangelist and Saint Zeno, while the right part Saints Benedict, Lawrence, Gregory and Saint John the Baptist (235 x 135 cm each). The predella paintings are copies, the originals are in the Musée du Louvre and in the Musée des Beaux-Arts of Tours. Despite the framing elements that divide them, the three main panels of the San Zeno Altarpiece form an unified picture space. The central section depicts the Madonna holding her Child and surrounded by music-making angels, seated on a marble throne decorated with Roman-inspired reliefs. The naturalistic trompe l'oeil garlands, seemingly affixed to the top of the picture, create a rapport with the garlands held by the putti in the marble relief at the top of the throne. The borderline between the real world and the invented world here breaks down completely.",
    "19262": "The main body of the altarpiece consists of five panels: a central panel of the Virgin and Child, flanked by two panels on either side, each of which is divided into two narrative scenes, one on top of the other. The four scenes to the left of the central image depict episodes from the story of Sts Joachim and Anna and the Birth of the Virgin. Those on the right relate two miracles of the Virgin associated with the celebration of the Feast of the Conception. A predella depicting Christ and the Apostles runs beneath the main scenes. The altarpiece can be attributed to a Venetian-born artist working in Zadar. In the past it was attributed simply to the Venetian school. The names of Lorenzo Veneziano and Jacobello del Bonomo were mentioned in this connection. However, the work is now attributed to Meneghello di Giovanni de' Canali.",
    "11713": "This view shows the Bardi Chapel (left) and the Peruzzi Chapel (right). Giotto painted a fresco of the Stigmatization of St Francis on the outside wall of the Bardi Chapel over the arch, which identifies the dedication of the chapel from a distance and at the same time provides the Franciscans with a large-scale image within the church itself of a defining moment in the life of their patron and founder.",
    "24065": "Catalogue number: Bredius 128. Rembrandt's portrait was particularly admired by the generation of Impressionist painters as a model example of their own view of art. It has lost none of its popularity, despite commercial exploitation, although it is questionable whether this has contributed to a genuine appreciation of the picture. All too many reproductions have given the public a preconceived image of it, before actually seeing the original. It is therefore all the more necessary to try to make a detached assessment of the work. Bode regarded the helmet as primarily an artistic end in itself. His generation, too, may have viewed the work in a more sentimental light, associating it with knights of yore and deeds of heroism. It was precisely these associations that prompted attempts to rob the unknown man with the sinister expression of his anonymity and to link him with the personal life of the painter; the theory that the man was Rembrandt's brother, Adriaen, a cobbler in Leiden, has never been substantiated. The painting is not a portrait in the strictest sense; it was not commissioned, as so many portraits were, by prosperous Dutch citizens. The artist has captured not the splendidly armoured figure of an officer or general of his time but the tired features of an old man, who occasionally sat for him, and the gleaming splendour of an old helmet, which was part of Rembrandt's collection. The painter's tendency to change the normal appearance of people - himself not excluded - by the use of finery and costumes is noticeable in a number of his pictures. Nevertheless, one cannot afford to neglect the motives which first inspired the artist to choose his theme, even if it offers little scope for original interpretation. Was it Rembrandt's intention to portray the unknown man as Mars? The God of War, richly helmeted, is by no means unknown as a theme in Dutch painting. The fact that such questions of interpretation are posed at all is characteristic of Rembrandt's art, in which the material and the spiritual are indissolubly linked. Recently the attribution to Rembrandt has been questioned by both art historians and conservators.",
    "26726": "Pieter Snayers specialized in painting battle scenes. He applied himself to making large paintings of historical sieges from the contemporary conflicts. He became court painter to the governors of the Spanish Netherlands, Cardinal Infante Ferdinand and Archduke Leopold Wilhelm. In their service he made a substantial number of pictures as a visual record of military successes. The topographical character of the set of siege pictures by Snayers in the Prado is remarkable. This painting depicts Spanish troops during the winter siege of Aire-sur-la-Lys, a fortified city on the border of France and Belgium. It was captured on December 7, 1641. This was an incident in the fourth phase of the war, when France had entered the war on the Protestant side, in order to prevent the Austrian-Spanish Habsburg dynasty from overwhelming France. Snayers directs all attention to a background with steeply rising horizon, and a topographically accurate picture of the beleaguered town, derived from graphic examples, presented as if on a map unrolled before the viewer. This produces a strong contrast with the relatively small foreground in normal perspective, where the military activity is shown in anecdotal detail.",
    "30619": "Signature: Signed on the wall to the right of the head. Provenance: Like the Lady Standing at a Virginal, this painting may or may not have been part of the Duarte collection in Antwerp in 1682; the Amsterdam sale of 1696, no. 37; and the Amsterdam sale of 1714. It was part of the collection of Count Schönborn, Pommersfelden, and sold in Paris in 1867. Acquired for Fr 2,000 by W. Bürger, and sold in the sale of his collection in Paris in 1892. Art Gallery Sedelmeyer, 1898. Art gallery T. Humphry Ward, London, 1894 (?). Collection George Salting, 1900. Bequeathed by him to the museum in 1910. Whereas the Lady Standing at the Virginal (National Gallery, London) is bathed in light, this putative companion piece features a subdued atmosphere. The shade is drawn here, and though we can make out every detail in the limpid light, Baburen's Procuress hanging on the back wall furnishes the main contrast. It is curious to observe that while inanimate objects - the clavecin, the bass viol in the foreground to the left, and the decorations of the musical instrument - are extremely detailed, the curtain to the left is stiff, and the lady making music is devoid of expression, depersonalized, and faultily drawn (see, e.g., her arms). There can be no question that the paintings from these last years are vastly inferior to what we have been accustomed to by Vermeer.",
    "1882": "The triptych comprising large sections portraying the Madonna and Child Enthroned (in the centre), Saints Nicholas and Peter (on the left) and Saints Mark and Benedict (on the right) is signed and dated on the central panel. The paintings wooden frame is probably designed by Bellini himself in perfect spatial harmony with the painting. Its pilaster strips illusorily support the ceiling of the open space at sides in which the saints are placed. In the centre, the Virgin, raised aloft by the throne, has a lighted golden apsidiole behind her which recreates the same effect as that in the San Giobbe Altarpiece. On the mosaic that covers it a Latin invocation can be read: IANUA CERTA POLI DUC MENTEM DIRIGE VITAM: QUAE PERAGAM COMISSA TUAE SINT OMNIA CURAE (Secure gateway to Heaven, guide my mind, lead my life, may everything I do be entrusted to your care). Although apparently more \"archaic\" in that it once again follows a polyptychal scheme (possibly on the request of the commissioner), in many respects the painting constitute a further evolution of the San Giobbe Altarpiece, of which it is reminiscent in many ways. Extremely similar, for example, is the figure of the enthroned Virgin, immersed in fine golden dust that is contrasted only by the compact blue colour of the mantle, which in some way isolates her in space. But mostly it is the study of light that continues, in favour of which the merely plastic elements lose their importance, while the question of space, despite the limit imposed by the shape of the triptych, is ingeniously resolved, not only by rebuilding within the painting the unity interrupted by the frame, but also by suggesting at the sides a vast perspective depth by means of a thin strip of landscape.",
    "12952": "The picture type of the archangel Raphael and Tobias first appeared in the 15th century. The event depicts a parable of God's mercy: Tobias, who was sent out on a journey by his blinded father, is being protected and guided by the archangel Raphael. When Tobias washes his feet in a river, he is frightened by a large fish, which he catches and guts on the advice of the angel. The innards prove to be a medicine which he can use to restore his father's sight.",
    "7861": "Delacroix enrolled as a 'garde national,' and in this role he portrayed himself, wearing a top hat, to the left of Liberty .",
    "20464": "The third scene, the Feast of Pentecost, shows the Virgin and the Apostles in a chapel-like room. Above them is suspended the dove of the Holy Spirit, which is poured out over the faithful.",
    "2969": "In this picture Bosch shows St John the Baptist seated in a humid summer landscape. The composition may well have been influenced by a painting done some years earlier by Geertgen tot Sint Jans. Geertgen represented the thoughtful prophet staring abstractedly into space, rubbing one foot against the other, but Bosch shows him pointing purposefully towards the Lamb of God crouching at lower right. This gesture traditionally identifies John as the forerunner of Christ, the 'precursor Christi'. In this instance however, it also indicates a spiritual alternative to the life of the flesh symbolized in the great pulpy fruits hanging near him on gracefully curving stems, and in the equally ominous forms rising in the background.",
    "25689": "The picture shows the altar wall at the Oratory of San Giovanni Decollato, Rome. The altarpiece of The Deposition by Jacopino del Conte is flanked by Salviati's St Andrew (left) and St Bartholomew (right). Francesco Salviati intervened in the oratory decoration around the fervent years of the Jubilee of 1550, prepared by pope Paulo III Farnese but celebrated by pope Giulio III. The Florentine painter was the protagonist around the mid-16th century in Rome and worked for prestigious patrons. Paying his most sincere tribute to Michelangelo's plasticity, in 1550 Salviati painted the powerful figures on both sides of Jacopino del Conte's altarpiece.",
    "17871": "This scene shows Julius Caesar in the triumphal chariot. The triumph of the emperor, who sits like a god in his triumphal chariot, is heralded and lauded - as shown by the presence of putti, which appear only in this painting, the laurel wreath with which Caesar is about to be crowned, the sculptures of conquered warriors on the triumphal arch, and the images of the gods.",
    "24203": "The Cirque Fernando was established in 1875, in 1890 it was renamed Cirque Medrano. It was a major attraction for Montmartre artists. The Cirque Fernando had its pitch on the Boulevard Rochechouart. In 1894 it was redesigned as a theatre. Included among its regular guests were Lautrec, and also Degas, Renoir and Seurat, who decorated the rooms with their paintings. The present painting features Francisca Wartenberg (left) and her sister, Angelina (right), members of an itinerant German acrobatic troupe. Ages 17 and 14, respectively, the girls take their bows after a performance.",
    "8502": "This panel is on the back predella of the Maestà. The panels illustrating the second and third temptations of Christ (the first one, in the wilderness, is thought to have been on the smaller side, imagining the predella as a three-dimensional structure) display considerable progress in the composition and arrangement of space. The tiled floor and the pillars, visible in the interior of the building in the Temptation on the Temple, are rendered successfully in perspective; they accompany the polygonal form of the building, without breaking up its rigorous geometry.",
    "7036": "The provenance of this picture is unknown. It is one of a series of paintings in various sizes, representing Venus or a female nude, turned out in quantities by Cranach and his studio; these were popular among the clientele of humanists for whom he worked. However, this conception of Venus belongs to a German tradition which derives its inspiration from Gothic art. The juvenile air, the slender forms, the tiny breasts an narrow hips, the rounded forehead, all go to make up the physical characteristics of the women (including the Virgins) represented in German art since the fourteenth century. This is quite unlike the conception of Dürer's Eve (1504), which was based on an objective and scientific study of the proportions of the human body. The strange pirouetting movements of the legs, crossed over one another, occurs frequently in the engravings of Master E.S. As indicated in the romances and the books of sermons, a swaying walk was one of the ways of expressing worldly elegance for women of this Gothic world from the fourteenth century; but here this Gothic mannerism meets and contributes to another kind - the 'Mannerism' of art history. Mannerist painters and sculptors, whether Italian, German, or French, all admired what Italian aestheticians called 'la linea serpentina', which seemed to them the most beautiful of all forms. The Venus is clad only in a provocatively transparent veil; in some paintings this is a subsequent addition, but here it is original. The better to set off the ivory whiteness of her body, Cranach has shown it silhouetted against a sombre background of foliage. The landscape conveys in a few strokes an intense impression of the Germanic conception of nature.",
    "8337": "The hour-glass and the burning candle are allusions to the transience of human life.",
    "19758": "Gerrit Dou called Frans van Mieris 'the Prince of my pupils'. Van Mieris was the son of a Leiden goldsmith and, like Dou himself, had been trained in the studio of a glass-painter before entering that of a painter. Van Mieris mastered Dou's highly finished technique and after his master's death was the leading exponent of the fijnschilder (fine painter) style. He spent his entire working life in Leiden, although (once again like Dou) he enjoyed a considerable international reputation: he received commissions from, among others, Duke Cosimo III de'Medici and Archduke Leopold Wilhelm, who unsuccessfully offered van Mieris the position of court painter in Vienna. This painting shows the traditional subject of a woman admiring herself in a mirror: in the work of Hieronymous Bosch, for example, it was a symbol of the sin of superbia (pride) but by the time it was painted by Gerard ter Borch and van Mieris it simply provided an opportunity for the painter to display his skill in rendering reflections and rich materials. Van Mieris highlights the shimmering satin dress and brightly coloured feather within the dark interior, encouraging the viewer to admire his craftsmanship and virtuosity. Despite his success van Mieris was constantly in debt and contemporary documents appear to support the accounts of an early biographer, Arnold Houbraken, who described him as a habitual drunkard. He was, however, well respected in Leiden and established a dynasty of painters: his sons, Willem and Jan, and his grandson, Frans van Mieris the Younger, imitated his meticulous style and continued to work in his manner until the 1760s.",
    "27146": "The painting shows a still-life with a dead hare and duck, fish, vegetables and an earthenware flagon, on a draped table.",
    "25694": "This scene is located on the right wall, close to the entrance wall. Salviati executed this scene 13 years later than the Visitation scene in the centre of the same wall. This fresco reveals that he was no longer concerned with including as many figures as could possibly fit in such a scene. Instead, Salviati concentrated on fewer forms - Elizabeth and Zachariah, as well as the dove-bearing maid at the left and the women bathing the child at the right - and even dispensed with the important subject of Zachariah naming John, a subject that he had still included in his early drawing. In the figure of the newborn child, Salviati quotes Michelangelo's Jonah.",
    "30973": "Traditionally, this work depicts Count Giuseppe (or Iseppo) da Porto, together with his first-born son, Adriano, one of the seven children he had from his marriage with noblewoman Livia Thiene, which took place in 1545. Originally, the canvas was a companion piece to another double portrait, of the count's wife Livia and her daughter Porzia, now in the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. However, more recent research established the date of the marriage at 1542, and identified the son as Leonida (born 1543), and the daughter as Deidamia (born 1545). The two canvases were probably hung at the sides of a window, as suggested by the specular origin of the light in each one. Veronese was one of the artists who decorated the palace belonging to the da Porto in Vicenza, completed in 1552 and built by Andrea Palladio. The subjects represented here are set in a faux shaded niche and painted full length, following a style that was typical of artists between Brescia and Bergamo, such as Giovanni Battista Moroni, who was an important inspiration for Veronese. Giuseppe da Porto is wearing a heavy black tunic, lined with fur and high on the leg. He is wearing a sword in his belt and a single glove, since he has removed the other to place his hand on the shoulder of his son, Adriano. The boy is also sumptuously dressed, with an ermine-lined jacket, decorated with gold embroidery. This portrait is a famous work from Veronese's young period and includes fundamental elements of his style. The colour range is very well defined, with particular style characteristics, such as the bold iridescences, making it different from the tonal painting style of Veneto. The textured depiction of the sumptuous fabrics, furs and jewels is most important, making this piece one of the most extraordinary examples of 16th-century portrait painting.",
    "748": "St Nicholas of Bari is shown kneeling in the foreground of The Coronation of the Virgin with his episcopal mitre and crook. St Nicholas's cope shows several scenes from the Passion, including the Betrayal, Mocking, and Flagellation. To his left are St Anthony and St Francis of Assisi.",
    "12618": "Anna van Bergen (1492-1541) was the daughter of John of Brabant-Glymes, Lord of Bergen-op-Zoom. She married Adolf of Burgundy (c. 1489-1540), Admiral of Zeeland, in 1509. Gossart worked for Adolf and other members  of the nobility following the death, in 1524, of his primary patron, Philip of Burgundy, who was Adolf's granduncle, and it was this time that he would have had an occasion to paint Anna's portrait. The present painting is one of the few surviving female portraits by Gossart. The sitter is dressed extravagantly as is appropriate for a woman of Anna's social standing and wealth.",
    "26489": "Simberg produced chiely small-format watercolours and prints. His favourite themes were the Poor Devil and Death. Simberg explored the mystery of art and life in his Fairy Tale paintings. Many of his works emphasize the theme of Death personified: for example Peasant with Death and Death Listens (both 1895; Ateneumin Taidemuseo, Helsinki). Another of his most personal fantasy images was the figure of the 'poor Devil', an expression of his alter ego. These demonic creatures can appear either mischievous or sorrowful. Death and the poor Devil represented for Simberg the two poles of grief and joy, of death and earthly sensuality, between which his fantasy world shifted. There are clear links between Simberg's fantasy images and Finnish and international fairy stories, but, unlike Gallen-Kallela, he never took his subject matter from the Finnish epic myth, the Kalevala.",
    "6576": "The detail shows the upper part of the lower layer of the Allegory of April. The scene represents the Palio (race) of Ferrara.",
    "10752": "The Company of Jesus commissioned from Vasari a cycle of frescoes for their own oratory in Cortona. (This oratory is now part of the Museo Diocesano.) The cycle, seen in the twelve lunettes on the walls, was intended to show the sacrifices offered by characters of the Old Testament, one on each wall. The cycle ends with the representation on the vault of three episodes from the New Testament, connecting the theme of the transition from the Old to the New Testament. Vasari, as he himself tells us, had his student Doceno (Cristoforo Gherardi) execute these frescoes and he limited his own work to some sketching, touching up. Vasari handed the frescoes over to the Company of Jesus on December 13, 1555. This picture shows one of the sacrificing figures, Isaac.",
    "22130": "The detail shows grooms and horses from the train of the Queen of Sheba.",
    "25233": "As Mantuan court painter, young Rubens copied many Correggio paintings of mythological subjects whose tender eroticism lights up Rubens's Andromeda. Although her glowingly full-bodied presence is in chains, she conveys a vibrant sense of potential motion.",
    "32425": "Born in 1181 or 1182 in Assisi as the son of a wealthy draper, he died in poverty in the same town on 3 October 1226. Francis' life of poverty, humility, selflessness and serene neighbourly love made the order of Friars Minor which he founded one of the most widespread religious orders in the entire western world. Following the council of Trent in the mid 16th century, St Francis was invariably portrayed as an ascetic, penitent and ecstatic monk, frequently dressed in the habit of the Capuchin monks and with a skull as attribute. Zurbarán's saint bears the entire complexity of this figure. This is Francis the ascetic, dressed in a brown habit, without signs of office or adornment. This is the humble Francis dressed in the colours of the earth. This is Francis the ecstatic monk, who has received the stigmata of the five wounds. His young face is raised heavenwards in contemplation, one hand placed upon his heart, the other on the skull, the sign of meditation. He is shown as a holy man of spiritual profundity and scholarly intellect, as reflected in his facial traits. Yet he is not a monk who is alienated from daily life and caught up entirely in his mystical passion, but a man close to life, as Zurbarán shows. His \"portrait\" is an allegory of faith and simplicity.",
    "9322": "Jan van Eyck shows an impassive Madonna seated between the two earthly powers, the priest and the warrior, the man mitred with gold and the man of iron.",
    "21132": "The painting depicts a river landscape with moored sailing boats and a village behind, a still-life of cabbages, carrots, hares and a black hen in the foreground. The painting is signed lower centre.",
    "9054": "This painting showing five stylish young people socializing on a garden terrace, is typical of Van den Eeckhout in the early 1650s. Unfortunately, it is in a very poor state of preservation.",
    "17235": "This painting is a variation on the traditional Venetian pictorial type representing the Virgin and Child with saints in a landscape. The idyllic group comprises the Virgin and the Christ child, Joseph (at the left), the child John the Baptist, his mother Elizabeth (the Virgin's elder sister) and his father Zacharias (at the right). It was painted in the Marches, probably for a local patron, but for some reason it remained in Lotto's possession. He left the painting to the religious community in Loreto after his death.",
    "13769": "The Isenheim Altarpiece, painted by Matthias Grünewald, was executed for the hospital chapel of Saint Anthony's Monastery in Isenheim in Alsace. It is now at the Unterlinden Museum in Colmar, a nearby town. The Isenheim Altar is a complicated structure with four layers of painted surfaces - that is, two sets of folding wings, like a double cupboard, enclosing the final altarpiece, which consists of three carved wood statues of saints. There are also two side panels and a predella. There are three views of the altarpiece. The third view with wings opened discloses the innermost shrine, carved by Nikolaus Haguenauer. The two panels flanking it depicts Sts Paul and Anthony in the Desert and a Temptation of St Anthony.",
    "19194": "4. Departure from Basel  The pope and his retinue have decided to accompany the future martyrs on their way to Cologne. In the left background they reach the gates of Basel. The scene in the foreground shows them embarking on the boats. To reach the second vessel, they have to clamber across the first. Several maidens are being rowed away in a small boat on the left. They remain behind to proclaim their faith.",
    "21423": "In this companion to \"Alexander the Great at the Tomb of Achilles\", the Macedonian ruler and general has entered the town of Gordium (in present-day Turkey) in 344 BC. In that city was the chariot of Gordius, the father of the legendary King Midas. The yoke of the wagon was fastened by a complicated knot. It had been prophesied that the one who could loose the knot would become the ruler of Asia. Instead of trying to untie the impossibly difficult knot, Alexander just cut through it with his sword. He went on to conquer Asian kingdoms as far east as Afghanistan. To suggest Asia Minor and the ancient past, Pannini introduced a bystander wearing a turban and placed the scene in front of an altar dedicated to Zeus, ruler of the Greek gods, enthroned with his thunderbolt.",
    "3191": "In 1550, Vasari wrote that a picture which according to him announced the arrival of spring was in the Medici villa in Castello. In 1477, the estate was acquired by Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici, who was a second cousin of Lorenzo the Magnificent. This is why it was long assumed that the Primavera (Spring), as the painting continues to be called, was painted for the fourteen year old Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco when the villa was bought. An inventory dating from 1499, which was not discovered until 1975, lists the property of Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco and his brother Giovanni and states that in the 15th century the Primavera had been displayed in Florence's city palace. The painting decorated an anteroom attached to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco's chambers. Such large format paintings were nothing new in high-ranking private residences. The Primavera is, however, special in that it is one of the first surviving paintings from the post-classical period which depicts classical gods almost naked and life-size. Some of the figures are based on ancient sculptures. These are, however, not direct copies but are translated into Botticelli's own unconventional formal language: slender figures whose bodies at times seem slightly too long. Above all it is the women's domed stomachs that demonstrate the contemporary ideal of beauty. Venus is standing in the centre of the picture, set slightly back from the other figures. Above her, Cupid is aiming one of his arrows of love at the Three Graces, who are elegantly dancing a roundel. The garden of the goddess of love is guarded by Mercury on the left. Mercury, who is lightly clad in a red cloak covered with flames, is wearing a helmet and carrying a sword, clearly characterizing him as the guardian of the garden. The messenger of the gods is also identified by means of his winged shoes and the caduceus staff which he used to drive two snakes apart and make peace; Botticelli has depicted the snakes as winged dragons. From the right, Zephyr, the god of the winds, is forcefully pushing his way in, in pursuit of the nymph Chloris. Next to her walks Flora, the goddess of spring, who is scattering flowers. Various interpretations of the scene exist. Leaving aside the suppositions there remains the profoundly humanistic nature of the painting, a reflection of contemporary cultural influences and an expression of many contemporary texts. One source for this scene is Ovid's Fasti, a poetic calendar describing Roman festivals. For the month of May, Flora tells how she was once the nymph Chloris, and breathes out flowers as she does so. Aroused to a fiery passion by her beauty, Zephyr, the god of the wind, follows her and forcefully takes her as his wife. Regretting his violence, he transforms her into Flora, his gift gives her a beautiful garden in which eternal spring reigns. Botticelli is depicting two separate moments in Ovid's narrative, the erotic pursuit of Chloris by Zephyr and her subsequent transformation into Flora. This is why the clothes of the two women, who also do not appear to notice each other, are being blown in different directions. Flora is standing next to Venus and scattering roses, the flowers of the goddess of love. In his philosophical didactic poem, De Rerum Nature the classical writer Lucretius celebrated both goddesses in a single spring scene. As the passage also contains other figures in Botticelli's group, it is probably one of the main sources for the painting: \"Spring-time and Venus come,/ And Venus' boy, the winged harbinger, steps on before,/ And hard on Zephyr's foot-prints Mother Flora,/ Sprinkling the ways before them, filleth all/ With colours and with odours excellent.\"",
    "17236": "The saints at the left side are Dominic, Magdalene, Thomas Aquinas; at the right Clare, Peter the Martyr, Esperance. The 15 tondos in the background represent scenes of the life of Christ, they are (from the bottom left) the Annunciation, Visitation, Nativity, Circumcision, Jesus among the Doctors, Agony in the Garden, Flagellation, Crowning with Thorns, Road to Calvary, Crucifixion, Resurrection, Ascension, Pentecost, Assumption, Coronation of the Virgin. According to the tradition, the donator was Sperandia Franceschini Simonetti, the wife of Dario Franceschini, Lotto's friend at Cingoli. It is not known whether Lotto executed the painting in the Marches where he stayed in November 1538, or in Venice where he is documented in January 1540.",
    "7391": "Aelbert Cuyp lived and worked in Dordrecht which, although a small provincial town, had a flourishing local school of painting. Nicolaes Maes, Samuel van Hoogstraten and Aert de Gelder also worked in the town. Cuyp's early landscape style is close both in its grey-green palette and sketchy technique to that of Jan van Goyen but in the early 1640s his style was transformed by his encounter with the landscape style which the Utrecht artist Jan Both had developed during his stay in Italy. Cuyp never visited Italy but he developed an idiosyncratic version of Both's style. He bathed his very Dutch landscapes in a golden Italian sunlight which sparkles on the water and warms the stones of the buildings. Having adopted and refined his version of the Italianate landscape style, Cuyp practised it for many years of a successful career, which he ended as a member of the regent class of Dordrecht and an elder of the Reformed Church, the owner of a fine town house and an extensive country estate. Because his style does not develop significantly his paintings are difficult to date but this view of his native town from the River Maas was probably painted in about 1655. The outline of the city is dominated by the profiles of the Groothooftspoort on the left and the squat tower of the Grote Kerk, a familiar landmark in Cuyp's many views of his home town, to the right.",
    "6665": "Louis XIV commissioned Jean Cotelle, who had already painted the Trianon, to document the state of grounds of Versailles. This painting shows a view of the Three-Fountain Grove with the château in the Distance.",
    "5498": "The present work is a rare example of painting on glass by Giacomo Ceruti, painted during the final years of his Brescian period. It is a simple, unembellished portrayal of a young country woman against a plain background. Reverse painting on glass is an age old practice. The main difference in painting on glass (as opposed to wood or canvas) is that the image is painted on one side of the glass, but viewed from the other. Thus, the paint must be applied in the reverse of the usual order, with the finer details painted first and the background completed last.",
    "3259": "In front of an astonished crowd, St Zenobius raises a young man already lying on his bier from the dead. He also saves a man who fell from his horse while transporting the relics of saints. The scene in the interior shows St Zenobius healing his sick deacon. The latter gets up immediately in order to use the water St Zenobius has blessed to bring a dead relative back to life.",
    "3561": "The subject is taken from Ovid's Metamorphoses. Knowing her son was destined to die if he went to fight in the Trojan war, Thethis, a sea nymph, disguised Achilles as a woman and entrusted him to King Lycomedes, in whose palace on the isle of Scyros he lived among the king's daughters. Odysseus and other Greek chieftains were sent to fetch Achilles. They cunningly laid a heap of gifts before the girls - jewellery, clothes and other finery, but among them a sword, spear and shield. When a trumpet was sounded, Achilles instinctively snatched up the weapons and thus betrayed his identity. In the painting, Odysseus stands in the archway on the left. He has a band slung over his shoulders to support the basket containing Achilles's helmet. Achilles, disguised as a woman, stands on the right, behind a large, decorated chest draped with a costly Oriental carpet. He clasps the hilt of the sword in his right hand and rest the tip of the blade on his left hand. The other characters look on in astonishment. The elegant woman in the foreground offers him a string of pearls from the finely decorated jewellery box in an attempt to cover up his error. The austere composition, with prominent architecture and figures like statues, give the picture the appearance of a classical theatre performance.",
    "19470": "The eighth scene in the chronological order of the narrative, The Deluge, is depicted in the large field of the vault of the second bay, between the triangular spandrels. In the doctrine of the typological relationship between the Old and New Testaments, the Deluge was considered to prefigure baptism, while the Ark was the symbol for the Church itself. The lustral water of the baptism removes the original sin, while that of the flood cleansed the world of sinners. Noah was saved from the water by the wood of the Ark, just as the wood of the Cross offers salvation to those who are in the Church. Three different patterns of behaviour may be distinguished in human beings: while the righteous take refuge in the Ark (the Church) and find salvation therein, the damned attempt to assail it, and others are lost due to their excessive attachment to worldly things, and seek safety carrying their possessions with them. In fact, in the foreground of the fresco, the latter seek to flee from the threat of the rising waters by crowding onto the rocky islet on the right or by wearily climbing up to the high ground on the left. In the distance, the wicked, having reached the platform surrounding the Ark, hurl themselves against the vessel from which they have been excluded. Lastly, those who have reached a boat that is about to capsize, between the Ark and the hill in the foreground, are also engaged in a fierce struggle. The scenes of violence are countered by the behaviour of those who do not seek their salvation at the expense of others, but display compassion and a profound sense of solidarity toward the weakest individuals who have been overwhelmed by the same calamity. The large field, with the Deluge, is divided into several sections with some wonderful details, but these are not properly integrated. Their lack of coherence is partly justified in view of the elemental catastrophe but it offends the aesthetic sense, not to mention the fact that this Deluge seems to be a dry affair. One has to compensate by looking at the groups of figures reminiscent of antiquity yet full of new experiments and of movement; of naked human beings toiling, carrying or being borne away and resigned to their inevitable fates. The destructive forces of nature and the elements are hardly indicated. This lack, noticeable in many of Michelangelo's drawings is a logical one. He sees all passion and torment, all toil and victory in human terms; for him it is not the event itself which is decisive but its effect on those who experience it, expressed in movement and gestures. In their distress men may commit wrongs near the capsizing boat and round the ark, but the scenes of mutual assistance and mercy preponderate, and it is precisely this which raises the perplexing question: why should all these people perish? It is a great composition but one which still shows the influence of Signorelli and other painters; too involved, full of unsolved problems and over-crowded with detail. The unifying synthesis is yet to come.",
    "4203": "The Hall of the Firmament is a rectangular space distinguished by a soaring, barrel-vaulted ceiling, where a unified composition unfolds to spectacular effect. This detail of the ceiling shows the Ursa Major, head turned back, being tickled by the tail of the sinuous Serpent.",
    "26535": "Illusionistic Gothic niches in the entrance arch of the chapel contains paintings of saints, while in the jambs of the windows of the south wall half-length figures of saints are painted. The picture shows one of the eighteen half-figures.",
    "8076": "This oval panel depicts a lady and a child by a balustrade accompanied by a man playing a lute, with a parrot.",
    "20373": "The abbess, descended from one of the most important families in Bergamo, was widowed young and went on to found the Carmelite convent of Sant'Anna in Albino in 1525. The inscription on the painting records her likely death date of 1557. Moroni has been unsparing in his depiction of the abbess: she is unadorned and wrinkled and has a small goitre. At the same time this is a painting of marvelous elegance, with its painterly medley of grays and its sympathetic portrayal of the elderly woman's inward gaze.",
    "1264": "Ovid describes (Met. 5:250-268) how Minerva visited the Muses on Mt helicon, their home, to listen to their song and story and to see the sacred spring, the Hippocrene, which flowed from a rock after it had been struck by the hoof of the winged horse, Pegasus. The scene is a wooded mountain-side  where the company of Muses are playing their instruments. Minerva is just arriving. Pegasus is seen in the background leaping from a high rock from which water gushes. The association of Minerva and the Muses was in line with the tradition that made her patroness of the arts.",
    "18037": "The picture shows a nocturnal forest floor still-life with a thistle, butterflies, mushrooms and a frog. Otto Marseus van Schrieck was one of the leading innovators of the Dutch forest floor-still life. In the present work, he has focused meticulous attention on a thistle, a single pink flower, and a handful of forest dwellers, all of which glisten vividly against a darkened background.",
    "18282": "Full of their own life, on the other hand, are the still-life details - the lavishly illuminated codex through which the wife is leafing, the angled mirror, which reflects the outer world into the picture in masterly foreshortening, and the glass, accessories and coins gleaming on the table and on the shelves against the far wall. In the dominant role which it grants to these objects, the painting marks an important step along the path towards the pure still life. By inserting his own likeness into the painting - reflected in the convex mirror Massys recalls the use of this device by Jan van Eyck in The Arnolfini Marriage of 1434.",
    "1643": "Anne of Austria (1601-1666) was queen of France as the wife of Louis XIII, and regent of France during the minority of her son, Louis XIV, from 1643 to 1651. During her regency, Cardinal Mazarin served as France's chief minister. She is represented in royal costume, seated near a table with her gloves.",
    "1929": "The detail shows the landscape in the right part of the painting.",
    "17158": "Lotto's three great altarpieces for churches in Bergamo (the San Bartolomeo Altarpiece, the San Bernardino Altarpiece and the Santo Spirito Altarpiece), which were painted between 1516 and 1521, in the same periods as Titian's Assumption and Pesaro altar, are High Renaissance compositions, but closer, in their symmetrical arrangement, to Florentine painters like Fra Bartolommeo and Albertinelli, than to Titian himself. Yet for all the balance of their compositions, they remain restless in detail, and a passion for bright local colour, and smooth hard surfaces prevents Lotto from achieving, or even aiming at, the painterly unity of his contemporaries. This failure to integrate perhaps reflects, at the deepest level, the tensions of a neurotic personality. The Santo Spirito Altarpiece offers further proof of the variety of Lotto's sources of inspiration. While the infant St John hugging the lamb can be linked to Leonardo, the variegated flight of angels above the Virgin's head can be seen in relation to Correggio's parallel inventions. The represented saints in the Santo Spirito Altarpiece are Catherine of Alexandria, Augustine, Sebastian, Anthony the Abbot, and the Young John the Baptist.",
    "21379": "The triptych was executed for the Scuola dei Bombardieri. The cannons at Barbara's feet acknowledge the trade of the bombardieri (gunners), but also furnish a warning not to play with fire.",
    "31468": "In this landscape drovers with their animals are walking on a path along the Spaarne, the city of Haarlem can be seen in the distance. Vroom may have based this painting on a drawing that he made of the same view in the British Museum.",
    "17203": "The Angel and the Virgin of the Annunciation are the two upper panels of the polyptych executed by Lotto for the small village Ponteranica in a valley north of Bergamo. The other panels were probably partly completed by assistants, while the protagonists of the Annunciation are among the most fascinating images of Lotto's maturity. Lotto, who was very fond of the theme of the announcement that Mary was to give birth to the son of God, presented the episode in various ways. Here the evocation of the iridescent, almost incorporeal angel confers a dream-like fascination on the event, which is, however, placed on a plane of worldly normality by the Virgin's gesture and expression. The angel in the upper left compartment of the polyptych is one of the most lyric creations of Lotto.",
    "22069": "This painting represents the portrait of a lady, three-quarter length, seated on a chair and holding a small prayerbook. According to an inscription she is aged 66.",
    "7336": "Christ as the Man of Sorrows is depicted with the wounds of his Passion, resurrected and seated on his tomb. This was a widely disseminated image in northern and central Europe at this period, intended for private meditation on Christ's suffering. Diego de la Cruz is one of the most outstanding representatives of Hispano-Flemish painting. He co-worked with Gil de Siloé decorating altarpieces, and they produced outstanding works. This painting reveals the Germanic influence which the artist shared with Gil de Siloé.",
    "5421": "This youthful polyptych remains fundamental for our knowledge of Caylina as an artist with mixed Lombard-Venetian influences. The represented saints are Sts Amelio, Lawrence, Albino, and Amico.",
    "22090": "This panel in the upper tier of the polyptych represents the Virgin Annunciate. With her billowing cloak, she is depicted in a very realistic attitude.",
    "17073": "Lorenzo's paintings of events from the life of the Virgin in the Bartolini-Salimbeni Chapel was commissioned by the Bartolini family. They cover an earlier fresco cycle by Spinello Aretino believed to have been commissioned by Bartolomeo Salimbeni in 1390. The painted architecture of the frescoes extends over the entire narrative, stepping back along sharp diagonals, while the row of figures moves in a gradual diagonal back into space.",
    "403": "This is the outer right panel of the polyptych. It represents the prophet Elijah as elderly man with receding hairline, creased brows, and long white beard.",
    "16511": "The detail shows the books in the lower centre of the scene.",
    "28156": "The panel depicts a barn interior with a maid opening mussels and a man with a stick standing, together with a still-life of vegetables and fruits in baskets, crabs and other fish, and pots and other stoneware on a table.",
    "10194": "This picture shows the interior of the Franciscan church of Santa Croce in Florence, with the high altar area in the centre, with a fresco cycle of 1385-87 by Agnolo Gaddi. To the left of the main Chancel Chapel, is the Tosinghi-Spinelli Chapel, while to the right the Bardi Chapel with Giotto's frescoes can be seen. Agnolo Gaddi's portrayal of the Legend of the True Cross in the chancel was derived from a collection of the thirteenth-century religious writings by Jacopo da Voragine known as the Golden Legend. The frescoes provided the pictorial model which the Franciscans followed for the next century (see the fresco cycle of Piero della Francesca in Arezzo).",
    "30493": "This panel is a genre piece and shows a young student asleep at his desk, one hand tucked into his jacket. In front of him are his gloves, a notebook, a pen and inkhorn, and six books, five of them piled up in a towerlike arrangement, which becomes the focus of the composition. Probably the painting conveys a moral message. It can be seen as a vanitas picture. Alternatively, it could be viewed as a representation of one of the seven deadly sins: sloth.",
    "31239": "The central panel of the polyptych represents the Enthroned Madonna with Sleeping Child, while the lateral panels depict Sts Andrew and John the Baptist (left) as well as Sts Dominic and Peter (right). The polyptych came from the Venetian church of Sant'Andrea alla Certosa where it served as the altarpiece in the Ca' Morosini Chapel.",
    "5456": "The knife offered to the priest is a clear reference to the circumcision, which confirms in blood the passage from the Old Covenant to the New, foreshadowing the moment of the Passion.",
    "27729": "Hendrick ter Brugghen was a highly original painter. He was probably born in Utrecht, where he was a pupil of the Mannerist history painter, Abraham Bloemaert. Having learnt the basic skills of his craft in Bloemaert's workshop, he set off for an extended stay in Italy, a practice which was quite usual among Dutch artists - and especially those from the Catholic city of Utrecht - in the early seventeenth century. Ter Brugghen seems to have been based in Rome. It was a time of hectic activity and experiment: the young painter from Utrecht studied the work of the Carracci, Domenichino and Guido Reni, but the artist who was to have the most profound effect on him was Caravaggio, who fled from Rome after killing a man in 1606 and died four years later at Porto Ercole. Caravaggio's powerful, even shocking, naturalism and his dramatic use of bold highlights and deep shadows particularly excited the young ter Brugghen. After Caravaggio's death; his revolutionary style was adopted and developed in the direction of more decorative effects by a group of Italian followers, among them Orazio Gentileschi and Bartolomeo Manfredi. Ter Brugghen was arguably the leading member of a group of young Utrecht artists who were profoundly influenced by the work of Caravaggio and his Italian followers: they have been collectively christened the Dutch Caravaggisti. Gerrit van Honthorst and Dirk van Baburen followed the same route as ter Brugghen and had the same transforming experience. Together they fashioned a new type of history painting which was to change the course of large-scale narrative painting in the north and, in particular, affect Rembrandt's treatment of biblical subjects. Ter Brugghen was the first of the Dutch Garavaggisti to return home and bring the gospel of Caravaggism to the Netherlands: he was back in Utrecht by 1615. He died young, in 1629, but in the years after his return from Italy he developed a striking and original manner of painting and range of subject-matter. Following the example of Gentileschi and Manfredi, he painted half-length figures of drinkers and musicians, of which the Bagpipe Player is an outstanding example. He also painted more ambitious multifigured secular subjects, such as The Concert (London, National Gallery) of about 1626, based on Italian Caravaggesque prototypes. In The Concert he brings to an existing format of half-length figures gathered together around a flickering candle, a striking fluency in modelling the soft edges of his forms and a remarkable subtlety of palette - which includes light blues, lemon, purple and cerise.",
    "19441": "The detail shows a soldier in the foreground.",
    "1309": "Along with Telemaco Signorini, Silvestro Lega, and Giovanni Fattori, Cristiano Banti was one of the leading members of the 'Macchiaioli' group who frequented the Caffè Michelangiolo in Florence, meeting-place of progressive artists. Banti later became a teacher at the Florentine Academy. In the Three Peasant Women, the figures are rendered in a rather abstract but luminous outdoor setting with the intimate, dreamlike character of almost Symbolist qualities.",
    "25857": "This altarpiece, known from its subject as the Madonna delle Nevi (the Madonna of the Snows) was originally commissioned for one of the oldest and most venerable altars in the Siena cathedral. It stood immediately left of the doorway known as the Porta del Perdono - the side entrance to the cathedral that provided most immediate access to both the baptistery and to the civic centre of the Palazzo Pubblico and the Campo. Sassetta received the commission in 1430 from Ludovica Bertini, the widow of Turino di Matteo, the man responsible for both the cathedral sacristy and the baptismal font. According to one local chronicler, Turino had died in 1423 and been buried in front of the Porta del Perdono. In the contract for the altarpiece, Ludovica makes it clear that she is commissioning the work both in memory of her husband and also in her own right as a pious Franciscan tertiary, so the coat-of-arms of her own family as well as that of her husband appear prominently displayed on the richly ornamented fabric covering the Virgin's throne. Her commitment to the Franciscan Order is clearly demonstrated by the inclusion of Saint Francis in the right foreground of the main panel of the altarpiece. The imagery chosen for the rest of the altarpiece, however, was entirely Sienese and civic in intention. It depicts the familiar subject of the enthroned Virgin with the Christ Child on her lap and surrounded by angels and saints. The altarpiece therefore echoes the imagery of two of Siena's most revered civic icons - the front face of Duccio's high altarpiece for the cathedral  and Simone Martini's mural in the council hall of the Palazzo Pubblico. That such an association was explicitly intended is shown by the inscription engraved on the Virgin's halo: 'If you trust me, Siena, you will be full of favour'. The imagery of the altarpiece was elaborated in order to honour two of the Virgin's titles - 'Queen of Heaven' and 'Our Lady of the Snows'. Two angels behind the throne hold a crown over the Virgin's head. The angel on the left of the throne, meanwhile, carries a dish filled with snow and the angel on the right makes a snowball. The seven narrative scenes of the predella describe in detail the legend of Our Lady of the Snows. They show how, in the reign of Pope Liberius (352-66), the Virgin caused snow to fall miraculously in the heat of August on the Esquiline Hill in Rome. Furthermore, the snow fell precisely in the pattern of the ground plan of a church. The Virgin then instructed a wealthy layman and his wife, and Pope Liberius, to build a church in her honour on this site - a church that became Santa Maria Maggiore, one of Rome's major basilicas.",
    "8989": "The Catacombs of Priscilla on the Via Salaria in Rome are situated in a quarry that during Roman time was used for burials. Some of the walls and ceilings in the catacombs display fine decorations illustrating Biblical scenes. They contain many wall paintings representing saints and early Christian symbols. The catacombs contains the best example of third-century art, the Greek Chapel. Twentieth-century restoration has revealed its complexity, from both a technical and a stylistic point of view. The area, re-using a nymphaeum, is a double cubiculum. The first room has a light background with an extensive biblical cycle, including the story of Susanna and the Elders, in which Susanna was falsely accused by two elders of the community but finally, with the help of Daniel, was exonerated. On the entrance wall are  the three Jews in the fiery furnace in Babylon, on the arch dividing the room the Adoration of the Magi. A phoenix (signifying the resurrection) is prominent on the right-hand wall and recurs on the vault. In the inner room, against a Pompeian red, are scenes of Abraham, Noah, Daniel, and Lazarus. The most significant and effective scene is a banquet in the centre of the front arch.",
    "22191": "The trumpeter on the left is one of Piero's most famous figures.",
    "18394": "The companion piece of a panel representing a man, also in the National Gallery in London. These pictures are among the earliest surviving examples of paired portraits. They belong to a group of unsigned and undocumented Netherlandish works attributed to a painter whom scholars have called the 'Mater of Flémalle', after three panels thought to have come from that locality. Robert Campin was an artist recorded in the archives of Tournai, where he had numerous pupils, held civic office, got into trouble for leading a dissolute life and enjoyed the protection of the daughter of the Count of Holland. Most people now believe that he and the Master of Flémalle are the same person. Under either name, the artist who portrayed these prosperous townspeople was a major painter. It is especially interesting to see how Campin/Flémalle approached the task of depicting a married couple individually yet together. Although their glances do not meet, husband and wife turn towards each other. While the woman's face is smaller than the man's, and more brightly lit from the opposite direction to his, their features are aligned and the compositions appear subtly symmetrical. The symmetry is all the more pleasing and surprising for encompassing such obvious differences of gender, age, complexion, probable character, even colour and texture of head-dress. Nor does the pattern-making make the sitters look less lifelike. Because they take up more of the picture space than the figures of Van Eyck's bust-length portraits, and stand out more decisively from the background, they have a more assertive and potentially animated air.",
    "30083": "The picture shows a wall in the Room of Giovanni da San Giovanni in the Palazzo Pitti. The frescoes were commissioned for the marriage in 1635 between the Grand Duke Fernando II de' Medici and Vittoria della Rovere. After the death of Giovanni da San Giovanni, these were finished by Ottavio Vannini, Francesco Furini, and Cecco Bravo between 1638 and 1642. The scene below the window represents Michelangelo Showing Lorenzo il Magnifico the Head of a Faun.",
    "12622": "The girl - whose identity has not yet been convincingly established - is represented with the \"sphaera armillaris\", an instrument showing the trajectory of the planets. As for her identity, several names were proposed Jacoba (Jacqueline de Bourgogne, 1523-1556), daughter of Adolf of Burgundy, Isabella of Portugal (1503-1539), wife of Emperor Charles V, and recently Dorothea of Denmark, daughter of Christian II  of Denmark and Isabella of Austria. Gossart painted the three children of Christian II, including Dorothea, in a triple portrait now in the Royal Collection, Windsor. Dorothea in the triple portrait bears a marked resemblance  to the sitter of the present portrait, who may well be the same child, five years older.",
    "30560": "The use of the inverted Galilean telescope becomes evident if one examines the perspective and the relative importance of the table at the right, covered with an Oriental rug, upon which stands a white pitcher on a silver plate. White porcelain jugs appear repeatedly in Vermeer's art. They contained wine, which was supposed to act as a love potion and help men seduce women.",
    "19571": "The Erythraea (Erithraea in Michelangelo's spelling), is richly dressed and pensively turns the pages of a book, while one of her genii lights a votive lamp. The other echoes her state of trance. It is as though she were under somé deep compulsion to rouse herself. The strange headdress threaded with her abundant tresses lends the head with its heavy-lidded eyes a dream-like quality. There is no indication of the Judgment she foresaw. Perhaps its only signs are the scared eyes of the ignudo to the left above her throne, who appears overcome by some frightful vision.",
    "21501": "These three panels come from the same polyptych and belong to a late period, when Paolo abandoned the experiments in the portrayal of space - initiated under Giotto's influence - that mark his earlier work, and returned to the abstraction of the Byzantine masters. The central panel represents the Virgin and Child, the left panel Sts Francis of Assisi and John the Baptist, the right panel Sts John the Evangelist and Anthony of Padua.",
    "5048": "There are also two paintings in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni that are not part of the cycle, the Agony in the Garden and the Calling of Matthew, dated 1502. The Calling of Matthew is much closer to the last episodes of the St Ursula cycle than Agony in the Garden, especially in the precise construction of the colour planes within a composition that is almost exactly similar to that of Giovan Battista Cima's Miracle of St Mark, a work painted around 1499 and now in the Staatliche Museen in Berlin. The scene is not set in Capharnaum, but on the Venetian mainland, as we can see from the style of the gate and the buildings around the square, where Matthew, responding to the calling of Jesus Christ and the Apostles, abandons his post as tax-collector (the receipts attached to his worktable indicate that that was indeed his job). Notice the typical wooden parasols placed so as to keep the sunlight off the worktop.",
    "23957": "Catalogue number: Bredius 391. The sitter's name and age are inscribed on the canvas in a later hand, 'Catrina Hooghsaet/Out 50 Jaer' (ie. 50 years old). Catharina (Catrina) Hooghsaet (1607-1685) was the wife of a dyer, Hendrick Jacobsz. Rooleeuw, and Rembrandt may have painted his portrait too, although, if so, all trace of it has been lost. The couple were Mennonites, a flourishing Protestant sect to which Rembrandt also intermittently belonged. Among the restrictions the Mennonites, followers of the sixteenth-century Dutch divine, Menno Simons, imposed on themselves were a refusal to bear arms or hold public office. The sect was popular with artists and craftsmen, as by joining it they were able to escape the control exercised by the clergy over the lives of orthodox Calvinist citizens. To judge from Catrina's clothes, which are relatively plain but of good quality, her husband was successful in his business. (The bleaching and dyeing of cloth were important Dutch industries.) The pair probably did not belong to the highest social class but Catrina acts almost as if she did. She sits confidently in her chair in a way that is both relaxed and animated, and a quizzical smile plays over her features. The handkerchief she holds in her hand supplies a touch of informality, as does the parrot perched on a ring hanging from the ceiling. Altogether this is a wonderful portrait, vigorous, crisp and surprisingly clear in lighting for its date.",
    "28284": "The models for this monumental Crucifixion are to be sought outside Venice, in German graphic prints, and in the Paduan frescoes of Altichiero and Giusto de Menabuoi. In the good and bad thieves to the left and right of Christ, who is already crucified, Tintoretto depicts different phases of the execution. He shows the body of Christ surrounded by a great aureole, so that it seems to have separated from the Cross, thus giving the impression that Tintoretto is bringing the Redeemer out of the area of the picture itself and into the viewer's space. Hovering over the boardroom gallery of the charitable Confraternity of St Roch, Christ speaks as the representative of suffering mankind: \"I thirst!\"",
    "14270": "The Gothic church of St. Jacob is the most imposing in the medieval, German city of Rothenburg ob der Tauber. The construction of the Protestant-Lutheran town church was begun in 1311. The magnificent Twelve Apostles Altar in the east choir was created in 1466 on the foundation of the mayor Heinrich Toppler (died in 1408). The altar paintings are from the Nördlinger painter Friedrich Herlin. The scenes on the wings depict stories from the life of the Virgin.",
    "30805": "It is debatable whether this picture (which once belonged to the Cologne-born Paris banker Everard Jabach (1610-1695) but by 1683 at the latest was in the possession of the French king Louis XIV) is identical with a picture on the same subject described by Marco Boschini in the Casa Garzoni in Venice in 1660. The arrangement of the crosses links the picture with an incomparably more dramatic Crucifixion painted for the Venetian church of San Nicolo della Lattuga (Gallerie dell' Accademia, Venice). Both works display the same glowing colors and the occasional borrowing from Tintoretto. Particularly memorable is the shrouded figure in the yellow robe, which is often identified as Mary Magdalene, but is more probably Synagoga, the personification of Judaism.",
    "32102": "Most of Joseph Wright's paintings explore the effects of light and illumination. He counted amongst his close friends a number of factory owners and scientists, the very people who were the driving force behind the changes that came with the dawn of the industrial age, which was to bring so much profit and wreak such disaster. He was fascinated by mankind's encounter with technology innovation and invention, and with the myth of a new era which he monumentalised in his paintings. The light that Caravaggio used to project his revelations and celestial visions seems to have fascinated Wright as well. But the spectator soon realizes that any similarity is misleading. In the work of Caravaggio, the source of light remains unknown so that it seems almost supernatural. Wright, on the other hand, uses light for dramatic effect. The experiment carried out by the elderly, long-haired scholar thus becomes an exciting theatrical scene. The scientist is demonstrating the principle of the vacuum, Using a pump, he has emptied the glass sphere of air, creating a vacuum in which a bird seems to be struggling to gasp its last breath. Pained, the little girl turns her face away as though witnessing the martyrdom of a saint. Here, we find religious iconography being used to portray a worldly situation, elevating the scientific experiment to a para-religious event.",
    "31792": "The sequence of panels, from left to right, corresponds to the sequence of events. The baptism of Christ, the most important action performed by John the Baptist, comes in the central panel between his naming (left) and his execution (right). Christ is thus at the exact center of the entire altarpiece. The archivolt reliefs narrate events connected with each of the main scenes below them, and the statues in the wall niches represent the Twelve Apostles. Van der Weyden constructed the portal to look like that of a real church. The grisaille paintings portray archivolt figures as well as saints in scenes which parallel the main motifs. The church façade is therefore not only a holy place, but also a pictorial element that sets the event firmly in a biblical context. At the same time, the spiritual world becomes accessible to the secular world: scenes appear from everyday life and the view gives on to a vista that includes a landscape and a town in the distance. It is here that van der Weyden's concept of art meets van Eyck's. The sacred fuses with the everyday and it is towards the latter that the holy events are oriented. The differences between the two artists cannot of course be ignored: while van Eyck's treatment of the contact between the sacred and the secular was free and light, van der Weyden insisted on a strict separation. The St John Altarpiece represents a new version of the Miraflores Altarpiece (Staatliche Museen, Berlin) in its pictorial construction. As in the Miraflores Altarpiece, three portals are decorated with relief and sculptural ornamentation, complementing the narrative content. Interestingly, however, parts of the real frame no longer run three-dimensionally across the panels, enhancing the plasticity of the painted architecture; instead, the impression is of a relatively shallow façade set slightly back. The main figures are on the same level as the portals, while in the Miraflores Altarpiece the space farther back is also opened up. The shallow zone of the foreground is set off by the strong effects of depth in the side panels, where the rooms are almost like tunnels. This makes the narrative backgrounds of the left and right panels subordinate. The foreground and background areas are entirely separate in perspective too: as in the Miraflores Altarpiece, we have a full frontal view of the individual portals with the main figures at the front of them, so that the viewer might be standing directly in front of each panel. The backgrounds, on the other hand, are seen as if from a single viewpoint in front of the central panel, with the areas at the sides converging toward the middle and emphasizing the significance of the central event.",
    "15433": "A pregnant woman bows her head and closes her eyes as if praying for the safety of her child. Peeping out from behind her stomach is a death's head, a looming sign of the danger she faces. At her feet, three women with lowered heads raise their hands, presumably also in prayer - although their solemnity might also imply mourning as if they foresaw the child's fate. Why, then, the painting's title? Klimt himself called this work Vision, although he had titled an earlier related painting of a pregnant woman Hope. By association with the earlier work, this one has become known as Hope, II. Klimt was among the many European artists of his time who were inspired by cultural traditions from outside their own milieu. He lived in Vienna, a crossroads of East and West, and he drew on sources such as Byzantine art, Mycenaean metalwork, Persian rugs and miniatures, the mosaics of the Ravenna churches, and Japanese screens. In this painting, the woman's gold-patterned robe - drawn flat as clothing is in Russian icons, although her flesh is rounded and dimensional - has an extraordinary decorative beauty. Here birth, death, and the sensuality of the living exist side by side, suspended in equilibrium.",
    "25184": "At the height of his glory, Rubens attracted an influx of commissions so great that no one man could possibly satisfy it. Consequently he set about organising a sort of picture factory to meet demand. This was standard practice at the time. When Otto Sperling, the Danish doctor, visited the studio in 1621, he saw \"a large hall without windows, lit only by a large skylight. There were many young painters there, working on different canvases, for each of which Rubens had made chalk drawings, here and there adding indications as to colour. These he later finished himself, and they then passed for works by Rubens.\" This proceeding has presented art historians with inextricable problems. But Rubens did not mislead his customers: he specified who had worked on what, and adjusted prices to reflect the degree of his own involvement. His collaborators could, in any case, scarcely be described as pupils. He chose them among the best artists of his time, each according to his speciality: one for flowers, another for animals, another again for landscape. They included the landscape artist Jan Wilden and the animal-painters Paul de Vos and Frans Snyders. The Olympian eagle devouring the liver of Rubens' Prometheus Bound was painted by Frans Snyders.",
    "8888": "The creased drapery in compositions often evidences a great power of expression. Anthony van Dyck seems to have been an influential factor in the development of this kind of abstract idiom. A spectacular example is found in the present portrait. The green drapery held by the woman \"behaves\" in a remarkable wilful manner - as if the fabric, stirred by the wind, is wrenching itself free of its own volition.",
    "13563": "The painting shows a view of the church of San Giorgio Maggiore without the Campanile. This view is unusual for the church is normally shown from the other side, with the façade at the left of the composition. Many of the views of San Giorgio Maggiore are taken from further back than in the present work and are panoramic, often including the Giudecca and a greater part of the lagoon in front.",
    "28871": "At the left end of the picture stands Lautrec's father, Count Alphonse, overseeing the grooming of a race-horse. Behind his outstretched left hand one recognises the caricatured silhouette of the painter, in the company of his tutor.",
    "18535": "This double-sided panel shows on one side St Lawrence before the Emperor and on the other Clothing the Naked. The work is a fragment of an altarpiece shutter, in which the St Lawrence scene would have been oriented to the interior, visible in the altarpiece's open state. Three other double-sided panels were recognized as part of the same altarpiece. These panels also depict acts of mercy on the exterior, and scenes from the life of St Lawrence and St John the Baptist on the interior. The dismantled altarpiece was attributed to an unknown master in Salzburg named after this ensemble as Master of the Acts of Mercy.",
    "10061": "Playing a prominent role in Friedrich's oeuvre are the themes of the sea, harbours and ships. Such motifs seem to have touched him deeply. The View of a Harbour may have been inspired by the harbour at Greifswald. It is evening, and between the masts of the two large ships in the middle ground stands the crescent of the waxing moon. Beneath it lie thin zones of colour, ranging from light yellow, orange and flaming red to lilac and grey on the horizon; above it, diagonal ribbons of cloud structure the sky. Within the almost unreal space thus created out of colour, the boats themselves are \"floating\" and seem to be moving forward out of the depths.",
    "4832": "St Andrew was patron saint of Constantinople. From that city his body had been snatched by crusaders and brought to Amalfi, just one bay south of Naples. The Count of Benevente, viceroy to Philip III, King of Spain, was charged by his royal master to renovate the crypt in the cathedral of Amalfi, where the saint is buried; and it must have been while he was so engaged that he asked Caravaggio to paint him the scene of the saint's death. The painting was in the viceroy's grandson's inventory in 1653, then disappeared for over two centuries till it was bought from a private Spanish collection. It was customary to show Andrew crucified on a cross formed by two diagonals. According to the The Golden Legend, Aegeas, the proconsul of Patras, had Andrew held on the cross by ropes rather than nails, to prolong his suffering. But Andrew took advantage of his slow death to preach from the cross for two days, till the people threatened violence unless he were taken down. By this time Andrew had preached enough and, to die quickly, prayed that his limbs would be paralysed so that he could not be cut down. As a great light shines, he dies. It is this moment that Caravaggio paints. The old man looks weary from his agony, and the sturdy executioner who tries to undo the thongs is twisted round in a vain attempt to release him. Below a small group are transfixed by Andrew's eloquence: an old woman with a goitre (Andrew cured throat infections), a knight in black shining armour (the sceptical Aegeas), a middle-aged man and, behind the knight, a young bravo. By restricting any sense of space Caravaggio has made a drama more intimate than the events of everyday life.",
    "9781": "In 1550 approximately, during the early phases of the works to realize the Boboli Gardens, a small garden was built alongside the wall of the San Giorgio Convent, intended by Cosimo I de' Medici for the cultivation of dwarf fruit trees as shown by the depiction of Boboli in the famous lunette painted by Giusto Utens (1559-1602). In this part of the garden, between 1553 and 1555 a small grotto was built, later named \"Grotta di Madama\". The project was directed by Davide Fortini, the son-in-law of Tribolo, to whom the Medici family had entrusted the design of the entire Boboli Gardens. The façade of the Grotto features a wall of artificial rock set within a stone frame topped with a gable. In the centre of the wall, a small door with jambs and an cornice in white marble contrasts strikingly with the façade itself. The Grotto has a barrel vault and rock walls with a sponge-like texture embellished with architectural elements such as frames and niches. The back of the Grotto features sculptures of animals surrounded by artificial stalactites, preceded by an oval basin with volutes standing on sculpted lion paws. Many of the sculptures such as the goat and the ram's head at the back of the Grotto, as well as the oval basin with cherubs and goats, were carved by Giovanni di Paolo Fancelli, while the central goat was realized by Baccio Bandinelli. The marble floor was created by Santi di Michele Buglioni and the beautiful lacunar vault with Grotesque decorations was created by Bachiacca in 1555. In 1696 the basin was replaced with a replica; the original is now located below the final window of the Pitti Palace's façade on the left side. The Grotto was closed with a wooden door boasting the Habsburg coat of arms, which refers to Maria Maddalena of Austria, wife of Cosimo II, from which name Madama presumably derives. In the 18th century the Grotto was completely abandoned until 1922, when it was used to store furniture.",
    "12647": "The painting shows an ambitious young man at the start of his career. He comes from the provinces, from humble circumstances, and is looking for commissions.",
    "1088": "Baburen's broadly narrative Christ Washing the Apostles Feet typifies the Utrecht School formulaic, stages approach. St Peter's pose, as he protests that Christ should not lower himself to such a humble role, anticipates the violently active figures Bernini sculpted on some of his Roman fountain bases.",
    "16652": "Towards the end of his life Lippi had the opportunity to decorate the vast choir of Prato Cathedral with a fresco cycle treating the lives of Saint Stephen and Saint John the Baptist. By this time Lippi had married a former nun and settled in Prato, a town near Florence, where they had a son, Filippino, who became a painter. It took the artist many years to complete this commission, but it was obviously worth the effort. He appears in full maturity here, at a time when he could reach back to his early experiences to create a powerful series that falls into the distinguished tradition which can be traced from the Brancacci Chapel to Raphael's stanze in the Vatican Palace. Among the four Evangelists he painted in the vault, the longhaired Saint Luke seems like a youthful thinker with his head resting on his left hand and his elbow on his raised knee. This figure belongs to a sculptural tradition that can be found in the early quattrocento with Nanni di Banco and Donatello and is carried on in painting to Michelangelo's Sistine Prophets. Because of the great distance, Lippi was forced to put aside a certain amount of petty detail and abandon his sometimes idiosyncratic light for a more single-minded approach, in this his 'ultima maniera'.",
    "32265": "The ceiling seems to be held up by gigantic caryatids that appear on the walls. Muses with poets appear in the spaces between the caryatids. The present detail of a wall depicts two Muses inspiring a poet between two monochrome caryatids.",
    "16821": "Pietro Longhi was first a pupil of Balestra and then of Crespi whose art was the source of his realism, which expressed a sober and sincere inner world, and a delight in detailed and fresh narrative. He conveyed his realism with wit and ease, whereas the immediacy with which he approached the landscape enriched his painting with a unique quality. Up to a certain point these elements can be discerned in pre-revolution French painting (Watteau, Chardin, Boucher and Lancret), whose influence also made itself felt in Pietro Longhi's realism. Only here and there did grotesque features appear in his art; he saw his figures with the eye of a sage and a gentle and witty impertinence is to be found in many of the scenes he depicted. Pietro Longhi became, by means of his genre-painting, one of the most faithful chroniclers of his age, and one who conjured up a regrettably vanished civilization. It should be borne in mind, however, that his connection with Goldoni and the teachings of Emilia encouraged him, through the observation of reality, to perform a kind of analysis of \"social depths\"; he did not want to cause an upheaval but only wanted to point out — perhaps tendentiously — the ineptitude of a declining class of society. Although he did not pass sentence, he allowed his opinion to be known, being fully aware that changes were imminent. Sometimes he would ironically represent certain dandies, abbots and virgins.",
    "208": "The twenty-five-year old Ottaviano de' Medici, on behalf of Cardinal Giulio de' Medici and his cousin Pope Leo X, commissioned Andrea del Sarto, Franciabigio and Pontormo for decorations celebrating the pope's father, Lorenzo the Magnificent, and other family members inside the family's villa at Poggio a Caiano. The iconographical programme, designed by the historian Paolo Giovio, aimed to evoke the celebrations of the Medici house through a series of episodes drawn from Roman history. Work in the Salone was halted with the death of Leo X in December 1521. Pontormo was the only one to have finished his lunette fresco, frescoes by Franciabigio and Andrea del Sarto on the long walls were partially incomplete. The decoration was completed by Alessandro Allori in 1578-82, a commission of Grand Duke Francesco de' Medici. Allori first completed the existing parts of the frescoes by Franciabigio and Andrea del Sarto together with those he planned, then he painted two large scenes, The Banquet of Syphax on the long wall containing Franciabigio's The Return of Cicero to Rome, and Titus Quinctius Flamininus's Speech before the Achaeans on the long wall containing Andrea del Sarto's Triumph of Caesar. In both scenes Allori placed the events in a large columned hall that opens up onto a landscape. Finally, he painted the lunette on the wall opposite to Pontormo's lunette. It is a formal pendant to Pontormo's work, he took over the horizontal articulation, the number of figures, even the colours of their garments. The theme of the lunette is Hercules and Fortuna beneath the Tree of the Hesperides. The picture shows the long wall with Allori's The Banquet of Syphax and Franciabigio's The Return of Cicero to Rome, as well as the wall with Pontormo's lunette.",
    "28621": "In 1561 Titian executed a painting of Mary Magdalen for Philip II, king of Spain. It is lost but several other compositions, based on this painting, survived; probably the best version is that in the Hermitage. This painting is signed on the rock on the left side. In his final period Titian handled his various versions of the Penitent Mary Magdalene with a dramatic intensity. This is particularly evident in a comparison of the St Petersburg canvas — considered the prototype for the series — with the early Mary Magdalene (in the Palazzo Pitti, Florence) painted for the Duke of Urbino in 1533. Despite the religious subject matter, there is a strong erotic quality in this picture of Mary Magdalene, who has sunk down in a posture of pious penitence, tears in her eyes as she gazes up to heaven. In contrast to the version painted for Francesco Maria della Rovere (now in the Palazzo Pitti, Florence), in this version her breasts are covered, but the extremely skimpy covering is if anything more provocative. The painting was kept by Titian, and remained in his own house until he died. In 1581 his son Pomponio sold his entire remaining works to Cristoforo Barbarigo. In 1850, the Barbarigo collection was moved to the Hermitage. The work is particularly impressive because of the beauty of the colours and the wonderful play of the light - Titian depicts the changes of colour it creates right down to the shadows cast on Magdalene's breast by the cloth.",
    "53": "This scene is a detail of the fresco cycle in the Room of the Ark. Billowing clouds of aromatic incense surround the Ark of the Covenant, which is being carried in a solemn procession into the city of Jerusalem. The high priest of the Temple leads the pageant with the tabernacle containing the sacred Tablets of the Law.",
    "9744": "This painting is the only known bozzetto for Fontebasso's vast ceiling canvas for the Palazzo Contarini a San Beneto, Venice, where it is still visible in situ. In the Greek mythology Iphigenia was the daughter of Agamemnon, king of Mycenae. Her father lead the Greek forces against Troy. The expedition was at first prevented from sailing by unfavourable winds, so Agamemnon consulted a seer, Calchas. He was told that, because he had killed a stag sacred to Diana, he must propitiate the goddess by sacrificing his daughter to her. Iphigenia accepted her fate out of patriotic motives. According to some, at the last moment Diana substituted a stag for the human victim and carried Iphigenia away to be her priestess. The winds changed and the Greeks were able to sail.",
    "9342": "Conrad Faber von Creuznach is particularly noted for his 1535 pendant portraits of Gilbrecht von Holzhausen and his wife Anna Ratzeburger. In the background of these pictures the city of Frankfurt am Main is depicted with a bird's eye perspective. This makes it one of the earliest known depiction of the city.",
    "15830": "The painting in the cupola vault represents the Heaven of All Saints with Assumption. With obvious borrowings from Correggio's cupola painting in Parma, Lanfranco produced in Sant'Andrea della Valle, for the fist time in Rome, an illusionistic composition consisting solely of foreshortened figures, presenting a fictive opening into heaven above the crossing. A mass of innumerable figures is grouped in two concentric circles around the bright lantern, where Christ reaches down toward the Virgin, who lifts her arm to him in turn, borne upward on a bank of clouds by countless angels. Lanfranco's cupola became a successful prototype for Roman Baroque, one that inspired an extraordinary numbers of imitations.",
    "13526": "This work is one of a series of twelve pictures representing the 'Solenità dogali', in which the artist has faithfully copied the scenes drawn by Canaletto and engraved by Giambattista Brustolon to commemorate the festivities at the coronation of the Doge Alviso IV Mocenigo, in 1763. This has led to some confusion, and the canvases were formerly attributed to Canaletto, though their style was quite unmistakably that of Guardi. One of the pictures, bears the arms of Alviso IV Mocenigo. Two pictures in the series represent the Feast of the Bucentaur, the most sumptuous of all the Venetian festivals. It took place each year on Ascension Day, the anniversary of the setting out of Doge Pietro Orsolo's expedition, which had achieved the conquest of Dalmatia in about AD 1000. In a magnificent state barge, known as the Bucentaur, the Doge visited the Lido and celebrated the marriage of Venice with the Adriatic, by casting a ring into the sea. The canvas shows the Bucentaur leaving Venice; another in the series (in the Louvre) represents the Doge going to hear Mass at San Niccolò del Lido. Another picture, in the Museum of Copenhagen, depicts the return of the Bucentaur to Venice.",
    "14898": "Jacobello, known for images of Madonnas, such as this Madonna of Humility, has imbued the composition with a sense of softness and tenderness rarely seen in Byzantine iconography. The formal eastern iconography of this subject, depicting the Madonna facing the viewer, holding a stiffly posed and fully clothed child, has been slightly modified by Jacobello. Here, the Madonna, seated on a grassy patch, is slightly turned towards the child with her head inclined to the right. The child, while still fully clothed, reaches out to his mother in a somewhat playful gesture.",
    "19207": "The triptych represents the Resurrection (centre), the Martyrdom of St Sebastian (left) and the Ascension (right).",
    "16417": "The painter here depicted three peasants recuperating and refreshing themselves by an inn. These figures sit, eating and drinking, around a low table covered with a white cloth, on which a bowl and a chunk of bread have been placed. The dramatic contrasts in the painting are reflective of the time Lingelbach spent in Rome, where he was influenced by the fashion for precise but intense chiaroscuro.",
    "9323": "The Madonna with Canon van der Paele is an intimate picture, a forerunner of the finest Holbeins. In it Jan van Eyck shows an impassive Madonna seated between the two earthly powers, the priest and the warrior, the man mitred with gold and the man of iron.",
    "13240": "El Greco painted several views of Toledo. Seen beneath mountainous clouds the city stirred his imagination and in this painting, as in others, the representation includes an element of fantasy and is not strictly accurate. In the El Greco Museum there is a painting in which a young man is seen holding up a map of the city. The map partially corrects the view of the city in which, to improve the composition as the inscription tells us, El Greco gave the Hospital of Don Juan Tavera a central place in the picture; transferring it from its actual setting so that the façade could be shown without blocking out the other important buildings. In the upper part of the picture there is a scene in which the Virgin presents a vestment to St Ildefonso. The landscape is painted in brownish-green and blue tints, and the mythological and religious elements are minimal; with his pictures of Toledo El Greco created the Spanish landscape, a branch of art which was nevertheless neglected until the emergence of Velázquez. It is sometimes supposed that the young man is a portrait of El Greco's son, who was, however, at least thirty years old at that time.",
    "26462": "Very few portraits survive from Signorelli's hand. Indubitably his finest is the Portrait of an Elderly Man, probably of a humanist. It is often said to be of a jurist, that profession and humanism considered practically inseparable. Victories before a temple approach athletes in front of a triumphal arch, these all'antica themes pertinent to the sitter's scholarly calling or pretensions. The action taking place in the background may be on his mind, as suggested by his downcast eyes. The hard-won balance between hat, head, V-shaped scarf, and the far-smaller figures is among the major triumphs of his great portrait.",
    "26554": "Some of the figures are praying devoutly, while others, such as the knight in the blue hat, express astonishment and even scepticism. It is assumed that this is a self-portrait of the artist.",
    "4720": "The story of the Holy Family's flight was one of the most popular apocryphal legends which survived the prohibitive decrees of the Council of Trent and often appeared in painting from the end of the sixteenth century. Caravaggio's idyllic painting is an individualistic representation of this. The artist ingeniously uses the figure of an angel playing the violin with his back to the viewer to divide the composition into two parts. On the right, before an autumnal river-front scene, we can see the sleeping Mary with a dozing infant in her left; on the left, a seated Joseph holding the musical score for the angel. The natural surroundings reminds the viewer of the Giorgionesque landscapes of the Cinquecento masters of Northern Italian painting, and it is fully imbued with a degree of nostalgia. Contrasting the unlikelihood of the event is the realistic effect of depiction, the accuracy of details, the trees, the leaves and stones, whereby the total impression becomes astonishingly authentic. The statue-like figure of the angel, with a white robe draped around him, is like a charmingly shaped musical motif, and it provides the basic tone for the composition. It is an interesting contradiction - and at the same time a good example for the adaptability of forms - that this figure of pure classical beauty is a direct descendant of Annibale Carracci's Luxuria from the painting \"The Choice of Heracles\". The Angel is playing a motet in honour of the Madonna, Quam pulchra es..., composed by Noël Bauldeweyn to the words of the Song of Songs (7,7) with the dialogue between Groom and Bride.",
    "27874": "The detail shows the figure of Deception.",
    "18289": "This painting is testimony to the high cultural climate of the time, and evidence of the links between two great humanist thinkers; Erasmus of Rotterdam and Sir Thomas More, both of whom contributed to the publication of Utopia. The portrait is one of two panels of a diptych that Massys painted in 1517, while Erasmus was in Antwerp as the guest of his friend Pierre Gillis. In a letter to More written on the thirtieth of May, 1517, Erasmus affirmed that \"They are painting both me and Pierre Gillis on the same panel\". The portrait was completed on the ninth of September of that same year, and the diptych was sent as a gift to Thomas More. More expressed his thanks for the gift enthusiastically in his letter of October 6, 1517, writing; \"I am marvelously affected by the portraits of the men that you sent me: even if they had been only simple sketches of charcoal or on gessetto, they would enchant any person except one completely insensitive to literature or to virtuosity; and they touch me more than I am possibly able to explain as they are mementos - now tangible - of such good friends\". Erasmus is shown, intently at work, translating the epistle of St Paul to the Romans. The second half of the diptych, with the portrait of Pierre Gillis, is now in the collection of Lord Radnor at Longford Castle (Salisbury). Replicas of the portrait of Erasmus can be found at the Rijskmuseum in Amsterdam and at Hampton Court (England), while the Royal Museum in Antwerp possesses a replica of the portrait of Pierre Gillis. In the Web Gallery of Art you can view several portraits of Erasmus by Renaissance painters, such as Hans Holbein the Younger, Albrecht Dürer and Quentin Massys.",
    "6448": "Toward the end of his life Corot revived the theme of the painter's studio: a model posing, or a gathering of connoisseurs or artists. In a few instances he depicted a young girl seated in front of one of his own pictures, contemplative, or lost in reverie.",
    "25245": "Rubens painted this moral and political allegory for the Guild of St George, the Antwerp archers' company, in the period of the Eighty Years' War (1568-1648). Rubens, who painted numerous allegories of this sort, shows the victor as a hero in antique armour, bloody sword in hand, seated as if enthroned upon the vanquished figures of Rebellion, symbolised by the torch, and Discord, from whose curls a snake emerges. The goddess of victory crowns him with a wreath of oak leaves. On the right, above the bound figure of Barbarism, a tutelary spirit proffers a a bundle of crossbow bolts, a symbol of concord. On the altar burns the holy flame of the Fatherland, which must be defended. Behind it, red, white and red of the Habsburg flag gives the general, timeless allegory a more specific connection to the time of its composition.",
    "24545": "The picture represents a major milestone in Rippl's oevre where two periods meet: elements of  intimate interior pictures  and those of the next decorative period with  corn are present. There is a constant figure of interior pictures: a old man smoking the pipe while he is meditating. He is present in this picture, too, he is sitting by the artist's father lost in thoughts. Unlike his previous pictures showing interiors, he limits space and does not show details, only relevant things. It integrates less formal pictures arresting emotions and atmospheres with pictures of strict composition. In the case of this picture everything is planned, colours and figures serve the unity of the composition. Spots and patches painted with wide brushstrokes can be seen in the figure of Uncle Piacsek and the lively yellow of the plain background. Neither the new technique, nor  the noisy colours  (yellow wall, burning-red table-cloth)  serve unrestrained decorativity, they balance the strict composition. This is why an armchair  with blue striped cover  and a green cover are placed  on both sides by the yellow background. The wine-jug and the two glasses have the same function in composition.",
    "3688": "The picture shows a detail of the left wing of the Dijon Altarpiece. The Visitation is not a literal rendering of the Bible story. Broederlam gives us the essence of St Luke's text: Mary, already pregnant with the Infant Jesus, meets her cousin Elizabeth who, although supposedly barren, is now by the grace of God expecting a child in her old age. In the painting, the two women are depicted side by side. Mary wears a large blue cloak which she gathers round herself with one hand, while with her free hand she gestures towards Elizabeth. The older woman is dressed in red and green, her head veiled in a fine white material. Although the painter has followed the Scriptures by setting the scene in a mountainous landscape, according to the Gospel the two women meet inside Zacharias's house and not as here, outdoors, in the shadow of a steep rocky cliff.",
    "25373": "This energetic sketch shows Henry IV (1553-1610), king of France, entering Paris \"in the manner of the triumphs of the Romans,\" as described in Rubens's contract of 1622. Rubens was to paint forty-eight large canvases for the king's widow, Marie de' Medici, to decorate the Palais de Luxembourg. Those depicting her life (Musée du Louvre, Paris) were finished in 1624, but little of the companion series devoted to her husband was completed before Marie's banishment from France in 1631. The present oil sketch is the last of four in which Rubens worked out his heroic allegory of events from recent history.",
    "10565": "William Cecil, 2nd Earl of Salisbury (1591-1668), known as Viscount Cranborne from 1605 to 1612, was an English peer, nobleman, and politician. He spent much of the 1630s in improving his ancestral seat, Hatfield House. He also made Hatfield House a cultural centre, serving as patron for painter Peter Lely, musician Nicholas Lanier, and gardener John Tradescant the elder. The background of his portrait by Geldorp contains an historically important view of Hatfield House with sportsmen in the foreground.",
    "23644": "This painting derives from a composition by Juan Sánchez Cotán (Still Life with Cardoon and Francolin, Princeton, Piasecka Johnson Collection) who was one of the originators of still-life painting in Spain. Although his powerful example continued to exercise its influence upon still-life painters in Toledo and Madrid during the first third of the 17th century, few artists responded in such a literal manner as Ramírez did on this occasion. The lateral elements of the painting are copied from Sánchez Cotán's prototype, while the central motifs appear to have been added by Ramírez. Sánchez Cotán's original painting does not contain the irises and grapes that are present in this still life. Ramírez appears to have taken Sánchez Cotán's painting as his model, to have elaborated on it by inserting new elements into the composition and to have signed it as his own invention. By filling the magical void in the prototype, Ramírez shows himself to have been the more prosaic master.",
    "11123": "The subject of this composition is taken from Virgil's Aeneid (8.370-453). Vulcan - the god of fire and metalworking - engages in discourse with his wife Venus as he and his workers create what will become arms that she will later give to her mortal son Aeneas. At Venus's side is Cupid, who clings to her for protection amidst the fire and cacophony of sound. Giordano envisaged this story on other occasions, though more often choosing to illustrate the story as told in Ovid's Metamorphosis. In that telling Venus commits adultery with Mars, following which Vulcan discovers his wife's transgressions and ultimately catches her with a fine gold woven net. The painting is signed on the rock lower centre: .LG. (in ligature).",
    "14990": "On this panel the Mystic Marriage of St Catherine of Alexandria is depicted with St Louis of Toulouse and a Franciscan Nun Donor.",
    "30534": "The bread in the basket, and the rolls on the table, are speckled with shimmering points of light and are fascinating examples of Vermeer's wonderful pointillist technique.",
    "21484": "In the Duecento, a lively school of panel painting arose in Venice, but Venetian painting found its first authoritative voice in Paolo Veneziano, whose signed works can be dated from the 1320s to the 1360s. Paolo's works exemplify the refinement of Italo-Byzantine style. In Paolo's earliest dated work, the Coronation of the Virgin, the freedom, freshness and brilliance of colour epitomize Venetian taste. The picture is organized in terms of waves of different colours and patterns. Unlike Tuscan painting, no clear-cut forms emerge; the picture is a web of colour and lines, like a luxurious fabric.",
    "25465": "The painting represents a still-life of grapes, plums, watermelons, peaches, lemons, a cardoon, an open pomegranate, together with a shell, a snail and other objects.",
    "25752": "British painters took an ironic and self-critical attitude to modern technology as Paul Sandby did in Laterna Magica. The contemporary passion for optical instruments, of which Britain was a leading producer, is referred to here, but the painter is also poking fun at the scientific achievements of the Enlightenment. So the pile of books before the canvas includes the name of Newton, which we shall encounter frequently in paintings of the period. It is no coincidence that the painter shows the projection on the screen in a drawing-room; this is, so to speak, an anticipation of the fact that photography would ultimately come to compete with painting.",
    "9658": "Flegel, Germany's first purely still-life painter, is believed to have worked in the studio of the Flemish artist Lukas van Valckenborch as a painter of flowers, metalware and fruit, a fact that would certainly appear to be borne out by this painting. The very Netherlandish-looking bouquet of flowers with tulips, carnations, roses and narcissi, is as superbly painted as the silver vase ornamented with golden mascarons in which it has been placed. The different qualities of silver, gold and pewter, their various degrees of brilliance, hardness and finish have been rendered in painstaking detail. The heavy pewter plates are juxtaposed with an elegant, fine-rimmed silver dish and a golden-lidded chalice bearing a fine statuette of Mars. The blade of the knife at the edge of the table, the dish of hazelnuts, the lid and edge of the brown earthenware jug - all are variations on the artist's theme. The display of foodstuffs seems less impressive at first glance, and arranged almost at random. Everything seems to be arranged by pure chance, so much so in fact that an allegorical interpretation seems unlikely. Though the composition may appear purely cumulative, it is nevertheless precisely calculated, especially in the masterly distribution of colour highlights.",
    "26971": "Scene 12 on the east wall shows when St Benedict's prayer enabling the monks to lift the stone on which the devil is sitting. During the building of a monastery it happens that several monks are not able to lift a stone onto a wall because the devil is sitting on the stone. Benedict is called, and his prayer drives the devil away, so that the stone can be raised as though it had been of no weight at all.",
    "2913": "Among the works generally ascribed to Bosch's first period of activity (c. 1470-85) may be included several small biblical scenes: the Epiphany (Adoration of the Magi) in Philadelphia, the Ecce Homo in Frankfurt (with a related version in Boston, Museum of Fine Arts) and an altar wing in Vienna, the Christ Carrying the Cross. Their early date is suggested by their relatively simple compositions and their adherence to traditional compositional types. This early style is especially well exemplified in the charming Epiphany« in Philadelphia. The dignified comportment of the Kings is set off by the impulsive gesture of the Christ Child, while the aged Joseph stands discreetly to one side, removing his hood as if abashed by the presence of the splendidly dressed strangers. From behind the shed two shepherds look on with shy curiosity. At this early date, Bosch's grasp of perspective was apparently none too firm; particularly ambiguous is the spatial relationship of the stable to the figures in the foreground, although the crumbling walls and thatched roof have been painted with a loving attention to detail. In the distance at the upper right can be seen a pasture filled with grazing cattle and the shimmering towers of a city. The Dutch character of this early work is unmistakable. The Epiphany represents a reworking of a composition which had long been used by the Dutch manuscript illuminators.",
    "6722": "The Portrait of Baudelaire does not show the poet at his most brilliant. He is seen as scholar and critic: the author of the Salons. He is smoking a pipe and reading, while the pen lying on top of a book on his desk is too obvious an emblem of his profession.",
    "22627": "This is one of the nocturnal paintings by Van der Poel. In this peaceful scene several fishing boats have been dragged ashore and a group of fisher folk has gathered around them, busy unloading and packing he night's catch. The full moon, visible through a break in the clouds, casts a pale, eerie light across the entire scene.",
    "5614": "In 1902, Cézanne bought a plot of land on the Chemin des Lauves, on an otherwise undeveloped hillside to the north of Aix, and had a two-storey house built with a large studio, some five metres high, on the first floor. In his studio he could assemble all the objects he used for his still-lifes. The ginger jar appears in numerous paintings from the 1890s, as do the straw-cased jar, the jugs and the pitcher. In the present still-life Cézanne shows the same object from two different viewpoints: the ginger jar is tilted forward so that we can see in through the top, but the sides of the jar are depicted frontally.",
    "200": "This panel represents the Crucifixion, with the Madonna and Sts John the Evangelist and Mary Magdalene, a city and mountainous landscape beyond.",
    "26018": "This is one of the four panels in the Philadelphia museum which formed the predella to an altarpiece, of which the main panels are in the Staatliche Museen in Berlin. In the centre was the Annunciation; on the left, St Jerome; and on the right, St Lawrence. Joseph leads the ass that the Virgin and Child ride as two handmaidens, one with a bundle on her head, follow. As in the Visitation panel of the predella, golden rays emanate from the maidens' heads. They are presumably the same attendants, but now they are barefoot and wear simple dress. As the group passes, a palm tree bows. This may refer to an incident recounted in the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew concerning a palm tree that bowed down to give its fruit to the Holy Family during a rest on their fight to Egypt. The palm frames the grotto in the hill where Christ was born. It is early morning and the sun has just risen, chasing light and clouds over the hills and faraway city. The attention given to the depiction of the landscape and the atmospheric effects suggests a close familiarity with the predella panel of the same subject in Gentile da Fabriano's Adoration of the Magi, finished in May 1423.",
    "14923": "This painting shows a pantry with pig's head and trotter, calf's head, turkey, poultry and other food. Almost in the centre of the painting, under the two birds hanging from a hook, it is possible to see a large key with a label, clearly marked with the date \"1621\" and, albeit less easy to read, an incomplete inscription that has been painstakingly deciphered as the name of the artist, Jacopo da Empoli. This piece is usually referred to as a companion piece for the still-life (also in the Uffizi) clearly signed and dated 1624 as they come from the same private collection belonging to Giacomo Arbanasich, from whom they were bought in 1922. The two paintings - which show differences in technique and also slight differences in composition - are often referred to together using the general name 'Dispense' (Pantries) in reference to the rooms dedicated to storing foods found in all large noble palaces in the past. This still-life shows a simple table, partly covered by a tablecloth, laid out at an angle, spread with a large variety of food, including a pig's head, a calf's head, a large trotter, a chicken, some sausages, garlic, half a lemon, a round of cheese that has been cut, a pewter jug, a straw-clad flask and a knife balanced precariously on the table (an element also found in the other still-life painting by Jacopo); the wall is hung with various cooking utensils, some game and poultry with the innards on show, and also a joint of meat, hanging next to a large bunch of black grapes. As in other similar still-life pieces from the same period, we cannot rule out the presence of hidden references to the vacuity of earthly goods and human pleasures. However, these aspects are generally covered by the clear and sometimes astounding observation of real life and its everyday elements.",
    "4390": "The subject of this canvas is rarely treated in painting. It illustrates the martyrdom of St Euphemia, described in detail by Jacopo da Voragine in the Golden Legend. The episode takes place at the time of Diocletian and the early Christian martyrs. After several unsuccessful attempts to eliminate Euphemia, who did not wish to abjure her Christian faith, she was thrown \"into a pit where there were three wild beasts so ferocious that they would swallow any man\", but amazingly they did her no harm. An executioner was then sent to drive \"his sword into Euphemia's side, thus making her a martyr for Christ. To reward the headsman for his service, the judge draped him in a silk garment and girded him with a gold belt, but as the man went out, he was snatched by a lion and devoured by the same\". Until the beginning of the nineteenth century, this painting was attributed to Titian or Veronese.",
    "11899": "Ever since Duccio's Maesta, Sienese painters had found in the two parts of the altarpiece - the large-scale icon, and the small narrative panels - quite different expressive possibilities. The predella was the territory of the contingent, of dramatic action unfolding in time, in the city street or across the landscape. Its scale was inherently humble, intimate; it became the natural location for that civic and vernacular imagery most characteristic of Sienese tradition. Giovanni di Paolo's main altarpieces nearly always present a Madonna in 'sacred conversation' with her attendant saints, offering very little opportunity for spatial and compositional play; after 1450, when the Florentine unbroken rectangular format became a dominant convention, they are seldom of much interest. His gifts are released, almost exclusively, in the predella. Giovanni di Paolo painted at least a hundred of these small narrative panels. His storytelling is entertaining, pungent, funny and compelling. St Stephen Suckled by a Doe is the opening scene of an outstandingly fine predella, added to a dull altarpiece of The Madonna with Saints (Bernardino and Jerome among them) painted some fifty years earlier by Andrea Vanni. It stood in a pilgrimage church on the outskirts of Siena, whose relics included one of the rocks with which St Stephen was stoned. A paved foreground with a steep street behind provides the setting for one of the strangest and most beautiful images Giovanni ever painted. Although the doors of the two facing palaces are open, the street is uncannily deserted. Into this spellbound, silent city has strayed the delicate grey doe, giving her milk to the infant Stephen, already haloed in his swaddling bands. The patterned pavement splays outwards, as though radiating from the semi-heraldic beast herself. Giovanni's colour is limited here almost entirely to white, black, pink and red.",
    "29362": "The silent devotion of the Virgin kneeling before a charmingly painted praying-desk of clumsy perspective is not disturbed by the appearance of the angel flown here on the fabulous cloud. The friendly faces of the two figures, their curly ringlets or long straight hair, with every single tress painted separately, are typical features of contemporary Bohemian art. The strange colours - the lilac shades of the building, the greenish blue tints of the robes and the cloud supporting the angel - transport the scene into an otherworldly atmosphere of ethereal purity, in harmony with the mentality of the age which regarded the reality of this world as hideous and unworthy of being painted.",
    "23550": "The Archangel Raphael is presenting the young Tobias to the Virgin enthroned in the centre. Tobias is holding a shining fish, with whose gall bladder he has, according to the story in the Old Testament, cured his father's blindness. St Jerome is on the right with a lion (his main attribute) and a magnificent book. The work is believed to be by workshop assistants, including Francesco Penni and Giulio Romano. In 1813 the army of Napoleon brought the painting to France where it was transferred from the original wood panel to canvas.",
    "11110": "This depiction of a peasant eating pasta captures a curious sub-genre of Neapolitan culture. As meat prices rose in the 17th century, pasta became less expensive and provided a more affordable alternative. Maccheroni (as all types of Neapolitan pasta were then termed) was sold by street vendors and often cooked in a meat broth, giving much-needed sustenance to peasants, who traditionally ate it with their hands. So-called mangiamaccherroni (macaroni-eaters) became a familiar spectacle in the streets of Naples, so much so that in the 18th and 19th centuries, tourists would pay for plate of hot pasta in order to watch peasants scoop it with their hands and swallow it whole. From the 16th century, these mangiamaccheroni became a popular subject in Neapolitan painting, at times used as a humorous personifications of \"taste\" in representations of the five senses. Luca Giordano painted a number of mangiamaccheroni including one in the Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton and another in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna.",
    "8522": "The picture shows one of the 26 narrative scenes from the Stories of the Passion on the reverse side of the Maestà. It is situated in the bottom left corner of the main section. The scene depicts Christ riding on a donkey up to the city-gate of Jerusalem. Crowds of enthusiastic people are preparing a fitting welcome for him, as they lay down branches and clothes in his path. The scene is unusual because of the attention given to the landscape, which is rich in detail. The paved road, the city gate with battlements, the wall embrasures, the slender towers rising up above and the polygonal building of white marble reproduce a remarkably realistic layout, both urbanistically and architecturally. The small tree, withered and leafless, that shows behind Christ's halo, is the fig-tree that Christ found without fruit. Florens Deuchler has suggested that the literary source is a historical work of the first century A.D., the De Bello Judaico by Flavius Josephus which was well-known in the Middle Ages. The panel by Duccio is a faithful reproduction of the description of Jerusalem in Book V. Infrared photography during restoration has revealed several changes of mind regarding the area around the tree in the centre and the road.",
    "13682": "The left wing represents the Angel Annunciate with Saints Francis, John the Baptist, Catherine of Alexandria and Mary Magdalene. The right wing represents the Virgin Annunciate with Saints Jerome, Augustine, Gregory and Anthony Abbot.",
    "17949": "Unlike the views of Canaletto, those of Michele Marieschi clearly betray signs of their creator's youthful activity as a stage-designer. His decorative paintings seem to combine the tender freshness of the colours of Zuccarelli and the witty, rapid brush-work of Marco Ricci. This is the background to the Capriccio with Gothic Building and Obelisk, its perspective layout scenographically grandiose and its drawing delicate and colourful, its architecture and foreground groups brilliant and sharp, the landscape background diaphanously soft, almost transparent on the horizon of the lagoon beyond the ferry gondola.",
    "11964": "The giants are ill-proportioned but muscular, with grotesque, desperate faces, and they are depicted struggling amid or trying to escape the dramatic collapse of rocks and fictive architecture that Giulio Romano imagined.",
    "3175": "On the left-hand side of the fresco the rebels are swallowed up by the earth, which is breaking open under them. The two innocent sons of Korah, the ringleader of the rebels, appear floating on a cloud, exempted from the divine punishment. Botticelli also included two of his contemporaries in the biblical scene. They are standing in front of the facade of an Italian Renaissance palace, and in the background, as is frequently the case with Botticelli, a motif from paintings north of the Alps has been added: it is a church with a pointed tower. The magnificent ships may well be a reference to the Pope's fleet.",
    "10976": "The decoration of the chapel in the Palazzo della Signoria (Palazzo Vecchio) was commissioned by Lorenzo de' Medici the Younger, who headed the newly installed regime in Florence. The decorative scheme of this low-vaulted chapel is traditional with the Vision of St Bernard at the altar end in the lunette, divided by a round window, facing another fresco of the Annunciation at the opposite end of the room (this picture), transversed by doors. It is richly gilded and replete with all'antica grotesque decorations in an elaborate organization predicated on a combination of real and fictive architecture.",
    "27959": "The two dramatically staged wall paintings on the west wall (The Meeting of Antony and Cleopatra) and the east wall (The Banquet of Cleopatra) present two significant scenes from Plutarch's life of Mark Antony. The walls predominate visually over the ceiling painting not only because of their figural compositions, but also because of the magnificent architecture painting by Girolamo Mengozzi Colonna. It is the depth of the architectural scenery that accounts for the grandiose effect of the two scenes. The picture shows the east wall with The Banquet of Cleopatra.",
    "7255": "The painting is one of a series of four telling the stories of Achilles. In his youth Achilles, the son of Thetis, a sea-nymph, was handed over to Chiron, a wise and learned centaur who taught him many arts. The painting shows Achilles as an infant being handed over by his mother into the arms of Chiron.",
    "22118": "Adam dispatches his son Seth to the gates of paradise. There he is to ask for the oil of mercy, with which to salve his fathers's body and make him well. Instead of the oil, the archangel Michael gives Seth the seeds of the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge, with the prophecy that Adam will only recover once the tree grown from these seeds bears fruit. From this seeds would grow the tree that was to provide the wood for building the CrossThis scene is included in the middle distance of the larger one, where we see the tiny figures of Seth and the archangel.",
    "25221": "The detail shows Pegasus, the winged horse, the mount of Perseus when he rescued Andromeda.",
    "19819": "In the middle of the eighteenth century numerous native portraitists - in addition to a few foreigners - were active in Holland. They could be relied upon for truthful portrayals and good conversation pieces. The high level they could attain is seen in van der Mijn's small pendants of the wealthy timber merchant, great collector, and amateur artist Cornelis Ploos van Amstel and his wife Elisabeth Troost. His collection included more than 7000 drawings and about 100 paintings. In addition he owned prints, sculpture, scientific instruments, and a good library. Single portraits, apparently too sensitive in their social significance, in the eighteenth century retain, by and large, their formal nature. Yet it was a formalism of a different kind a more informal formalism, one is tempted to say. In van der Mijn's portrait, the man takes on a pose of confidence which in its structure is rather conventional. But there the resemblance to the conventions of portraiture ends. For this man is sitting down. That, precisely is an informality which is very unlike the seventeenth century. Confident men in seventeenth century portraiture, were most often standing; this was a sign of activity. But then, the man in this portrait is not concerned with giving an impression of activity. He is - this too is a new type of informality - at leisure. Van der Mijn portrayed the encyclopedic collector in his role as an artist; paintings depicting eighteenth-century collectors in their homes surrounded by their treasures on their walls were done in Holland, but not frequently. In van der Mijn's three-quarter-length, Ploss is seen with his chalk holder in one hand and a sketch in the other, seated informally.",
    "12389": "Catalogue numbers: F 630, JH 1775. This painting was executed after a painting by Delacroix. In September 1889, van Gogh did two copies of Delacroix's famous painting. Nothing could convey more clearly his need to record his own crisis in the features of another than these two copies. The face of the crucified Christ in the lap of a grieving Mary quite unambiguously has van Gogh's own features. The painter was to attempt this daring stroke once more, in his interpretation of Rembrandt's The Raising of Lazarus. Here, van Gogh gave his own features to a Biblical figure, who, like Christ, passed through Death into new Life.",
    "10849": "Four female prophets are depicted in the vaulting of the chapel. They are enthroned on clouds in front of a sky-blue background and are holding out their prophecies on banderoles. They are wearing marvelously coloured garments and dresses with high waistlines. The ribs of the Gothic vault are magnificently decorated with painted garlands of fruit symbolizing the wealth, prosperity and fertility of both the donor family and the city of Florence. The picture shows Agrippina.",
    "17230": "Gabriel runs in from the door bearing a huge lily and drops suddenly to one knee.",
    "27000": "Spitzweg was regarded as the secluded \"painter-poet of Munich's Heumarkt,\" an eccentric who never displayed his extensive traveling. With Spitzweg Biedermeier painting as such comes to an end. He is still describing this world, but with the objectivity and distance of the observer. He can invest the seemingly idyllic scenes and subjects with a humour that is often biting. The Poor Poet is and apt example of this. Three versions of the Poor Poet are known. It is thought that Etenhuber (1720-82), a poet living in impoverished circumstances in Munich, was the model. Spitzweg shows the poet writing in bed to keep warm, for there is snow outside on the roofs and he has no wood to heat the stove. But he seems unconcerned at his scant means and the leaking roof, and his pen in his mouth, he counts off the meter of his rhyme on his fingers.",
    "7787": "One of the nineteenth century's most innovative artists, Edgar Degas often combined traditional techniques in unorthodox ways. In Ballet at the Paris Opéra, the artist creatively joined the monotype technique, rarely used in his time, with the fragile medium of pastel. Described as \"the powder of butterfly wings,\" pastel was the perfect medium to illustrate the onstage metamorphosis of spindly young dancers into visions of beauty as perfect and short-lived as butterflies. This work, executed on one of the widest monotype plates ever used by the artist, bears Degas's characteristically cropped forms and odd vantage points, which effectively convey the immediacy of the scene. The view is from the orchestra pit, with the necks of the double basses intruding into the dancers' zone. The central dancer is in fifth position, en pointe, but the random placement of the corps de ballet, with the dancers' free-flowing hair, suggests a rehearsal rather than a performance. The Paris Opéra was the official school of the first state-supported ballet, the Académie Royale de Danse, created in 1661. The picture is signed, lower left, in white pastel: \"Degas\".",
    "26494": "At the end of the 1890s, Simberg began studying the technique of fresco painting. He had already attempted to create the effect of fresco in his earlier tempera paintings. This interest was fuelled by the opportunity to produce murals for the recently constructed Tampere Cathedral. In order to learn more about fresco painting, he travelled to Italy in 1897, where he was particularly inspired by early Renaissance frescoes. Between 1905 and 1906, Simberg frescoed Tampere Cathedral, designed in the National Romantic style by Lars Sonck and built between 1902 and 1907. The focus of the decoration is an ornamental frieze running around the front of the gallery. Young, naked, androgynous-looking boys were shown carrying a garland displaying thorns as well as roses, an interpretation of life's many-faceted journey and how to relate to the questions of eternity and death. Other parts of the cathedral decoration also deal with the themes of sin and redemption. The serpent in Paradise with an apple in its mouth adorns the central dome of the vaulted ceiling, while a pattern of white wings provides the decorative feature of the vaults themselves. Simberg also produced most of the stained glass, which completes the decoration on such themes as the Horsemen of the Apocalypse, the Burning Bush and Pelican. The paintings aroused considerable adverse criticism in their time. Of particular controversy was Simberg's painting of a winged serpent on a red background in the highest point of the ceiling, which some contemporaries interpreted as a symbol of sin and corruption.",
    "3085": "This painting represents an Italianate rocky landscape by the sea with a fortification, a stone bridge and a ruined wall, figures travelling on donkeyback and on foot in the foreground.",
    "2021": "This topographically correct view (and its companion piece Liechtenstein Garden Palace in Vienna Seen from its Belvedere) shows also Prince Joseph Wenzel standing in front of his suburban palace.",
    "5067": "The painting comes from the now demolished church of Sant'Antonio di Castello. The altarpiece tells the story of the Roman soldiers who converted to Christianity and were then sent to die by their own emperor, in league with the rulers of the east. It celebrates the glory won during the Turkish wars by the family of the donor, Ettore Ottobon.",
    "4552": "Together with the Entrance to the Grand Canal: from the West End of the Molo, this view of the Piazza San Marco is thought to have been bought by the Earl of Carlisle, directly from Canaletto himself. Both works hung in Castle Howard in Yorkshire, one of the homes of the Carlisle family, until they were sold and presented to the National Gallery in Washington by Barbara Hutton in 1945. The Piazza is here shown as a lively centre of commerce; stallholders cluster round the flag staffs and are protected from the sun by large colourful parasols. From left to right an impressive view of the San Marco, the Doge's Palace and a view of the Bacino, forms a backdrop to their activity. From this vantage point the artist shows a clear view of horses of San Marco which are set above the main door of the church; they were later to become the subject of one of Canaletto's most inventive capricci (The Horses of San Marco in the Piazzetta, Royal Collection, Windsor).",
    "7983": "Springtime, with its associations of joyful new life, was a source of constant inspiration for Denis. This double-sided canvas presents two studies for his 1899 painting Virginal Spring (private collection), in which young women engage in a purification ritual evocative of Christian baptism and communion. The verdant setting is the Forest of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, near Paris, whose tree-lined glades and dainty wildflowers captivated Denis. He later reprised this composition in his mural series Eternal Spring (Musée Départemental du Prieuré, Saint-Germain-en-Laye), one of his most ambitious attempts at rejuvenating the practice of decorative painting in France.",
    "28830": "Jan Toorop was one of the most significant Symbolist artists around 1900. He used a very personal style of parallel wavy lines that became the 'salad oil style', named after a poster that Toorop made for salad oil. The child in the high chair is Toorop's daughter Charley; she would later become an artist herself.",
    "884": "One side of a panel painted on both sides. The other side represents the Madonna and Child with Saints.",
    "6360": "This early work by Corneille de Lyon represents the portrait of an unidentified gentleman, wearing a black coat and cap, with a green background. Judging from his clothing he could be a member of the legal profession, perhaps a town magistrate.",
    "7237": "The picture shows the personification of Spring. The personifications of the Four Seasons represent a style not customary for ceiling frescoes, one that uses burlesque poses and exaggerated expressions. Spring gazes down at the viewer seductively, with an impish, cryptic look.",
    "2983": "Bosch painted a group of half-length Passion scenes. The earliest example most probably is the Christ Crowned with Thorns in London. The large, firmly modelled figures are composed against the plain, grey-blue background with the utmost simplicity, the white-robed Christ surrounded by his four tormentors. One soldier holds a crown of thorns above his head, another tugs at his robe, and a third touches his hand with a mocking gesture. Their actions, however, seem curiously ineffectual and Christ ignores his persecutors to look calmly, even gently, at the spectator. The half-length format and the tendency to crowd the figures against the picture plane with little indication of space, are characteristics which reflect a Flemish devotional type popularized by Hugo van der Goes and Hans Memling. Like its Flemish models, the London Christ Crowned with Thorns presents the sacred scene not in its historical actuality but in its timeless aspect.",
    "20953": "Around 1870, growing numbers of Scandinavian (Danish, Finnish, Norwegian and Swedish) artists took to visiting Paris, the modern metropolis with its many-sided art scene. They attended the school of Léon Bonnat, or the Académie Julian, or the Académie Colarossi. Some of them were tutored by  Jean-Léon Gérôme. When summer arrived and tuition ceased at the private schools in Paris, the artists deserted the city. The coast of Brittany was especially popular for painting holidays. In the 1880s, there was a Swedish artists' colony at Grèz-sur-Loing, by the Fontainebleau woods. In his first summer working at Grèz, Nordström was totally under the influence of the seventh Impressionist exhibition. A Clearing in the Woods at Grèz does not seem fully committed to Impressionist technique,though; the filigree of the slender tree trunks retains a linear clarity. The leafage and ground, on the other hand, are a shimmering fabric of green, blue and ochre brush strokes such as might satisfy even the most orthodox Impressionists. The female figure near the point where the path vanishes may seem to have been positioned by chance, but in fact she has her specific spatial and narrative part to play in the overall composition.",
    "5793": "In 1444, three years after the death of Jan van Eyck, Petrus Christus left his homeland in the northern Netherlands to settle in Bruges. This portrait, one of Christus's earliest signed and dated works, shows van Eyck's influence in the technical virtuosity of the trompe-l'oeil fly and the carved inscription. The sitter, once transformed into a saint by the addition of a halo, is an unknown lay brother of the Carthusian order. The fly is a symbol of decay, a reminder of man's mortality, but it also greatly enhances the fiction of a real person gazing at us from behind a stone ledge in which Christus's signature appears as an incised inscription.",
    "506": "In this painting Andrea del Sarto appears to reflect on an archaising iconography in the style of Fra Bartolomeo. The figure is large and dominant, yet the proportions between the masses and the space are accurate. Even the extended spreading of the colours seems intended to lighten the weight of the figure, which due to the faint and uncertain light stands alone and isolated against the background surroundings. It is the standard of the Compagnia di San Jacopo del Nicchio. The two children wear the costume of the \"battuti\". It is a late work and very beautiful. The painting was restored in 1989.",
    "16092": "This picture is related to a larger multi-figural composition called Les Baigneuses which Lehmann painted while in Rome and exhibited at the 1842 Salon. The classically posed and idealized female nude is clearly inspired by Ingres's The Source in the Louvre.",
    "19746": "The Cloth Shop ostensibly represents a shop interior, a subject rarely seen in Dutch art. However, this is a store whose sumptuous adornment is far removed from real shops of the time. Amidst the dazzling array of fabric bolts a smirking officer gently strokes the chin of the slightly disheveled female clerk while he touches a cloth swatch on the table between them. The viewer can assume that he can probably purchase both the fabric and its seller. Behind the couple, in the back of the shop, a craggy-faced old man dressed in a heavy clothing observes them with resentment.",
    "10881": "The picture shows a view toward the north of the Tornabuoni Chapel in Santa Maria Novella. On the right wall are scenes from the life of St John the Baptist; on the left wall, scenes from the life of the Virgin; in the lunette of the window wall the Coronation of the Virgin; below it, on the left, St Dominic burning heretical writings, and the Annunciation to the Virgin; on the right, the martyrdom of St Peter Martyr, and the young John the Baptist in the wilderness; in the vaulting the four evangelists.",
    "30544": "Like A Lady and Two Gentlemen, this seduction scene contains an open window which features the warning figure of Temperance.",
    "14523": "On the upper shelf of the 'étagère' lie various astronomical instruments. Behind Jean de Dinteville's arm is an astronomical globe, and beside it are numerous instruments with which the date and time can be determined: a cylindrical calendar, two quadrants (allowing the height of the sun and their angle to the horizon to be calculated), a ten-sided sun clock, and a torquetum, the most valuable and complex clock among the items displayed.",
    "2337": "The subject of this painting was taken from the writings of the ancient Roman author Livy. The Roman senate honours the hero Camillus, who returned from exile and rescued Rome from the Gauls, with a triumphal parade through Rome. The painting was probably displayed like a frieze with other panels in the home of a wealthy Florentine family.",
    "6463": "The picture shows a detail of the ceiling of the Camera di San Paolo. Correggio's decoration is related to the myth of Diana by alluding to the story of Actaeon with a putti who are displaying a stag's head.",
    "25822": "This painting depicts a twilight scene in the Luxembourg Garden with a fashionably dressed couple walking arm in arm. In the 1870s Sargent lived in the Quartier Latin in Paris, near to the Palais du Luxembourg and its large park.",
    "9580": "The image of this famous repentant sinner, prototype of the penitent in Christian art, became one of the favourite subjects of European art in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. In a career that spanned only thirteen years, Fetti's work underwent an astonishing evolution, from objective realism to lyricism, from compact form to the erosion of space, from solid and plastic modeling to a broken and agitated kind of painting, from descriptive to tortuous brush strokes, from dry to oily and liquid tints, from local colour to tonality, and from analytical concreteness to a sweetly sentimental air. Here the artist takes his inspiration from Correggio's Mary Magdalene reading. He represents the sensual and seductive heroine with half-closed eyes, lowered head, and the characteristic gesture of the hand on which she rests her head, with an intensely melancholic significance, equivalent to 'tristitia'. In fact the painter conceived this theme in terms of a Meditation or Melancholy. It is worth remembering that Giovan Battista Andreini's drama Maddalena was published in Mantua in 1617, and may have provided the idea for the painting. In any case, the last possible date for its execution is 1621, the date on which a copy (now at Hampton Court), possibly the work of the painter's sister Lucrina Fetti, was delivered to Ferdinando Gonzaga.",
    "17712": "The picture shows the two scenes at the lower section of the right wall of the chapel in their present state. They depict the Martyrdom of St Christopher and the Removal of his Body.",
    "31729": "The subject of this triptych is the Seven Sacraments. Of the Christian sacraments - acts conferring grace - Protestants generally recognize two, Baptism and Communion, and the Catholics seven, which comprise, in addition, Confirmation, Penance (Confession), Extreme Unction, Holy Orders and Matrimony, the last two still being mutually exclusive. They are seen on medieval fonts and as altarpiece cycles in early Netherlandish painting, where the subject seems to have had greater appeal, at least until the 17th century. The triptych of Rogier van der Weyden is a good example of these altarpieces. We see an acuteness of observation in the Altar of the Sacraments. The Calvary sequence takes place in the interior of a light, spacious church, whose carefully executed details immediately catch the viewer's eye. The seven sacraments are presented around the central crucifixion group accompanied by an angel with a banderole. The importance of the action in the central panel is emphasised by the size of the depicted personages compared to the figures in the side panels. The emotion of the central characters - Saint John and the three Marys - who are overcome with grief, is a characteristic feature of Van der Weyden's art. It is thought that the triptych was commissioned in 1441 by the Bishop of Tournai, Jean Chevrot, for the altar of his private chapel. Van der Weyden portrays him on the left of the painting, as the bishop administering Confirmation. Van der Weyden was probably helped by his assistants during the execution of the Altar of the Sacraments.",
    "20474": "This night landscape represents the coastline at Åsgårdstrand, a small beach resort south of Oslo in Norway, where Edvard Munch spent his summers from the 1880s onward. Here Munch tried to capture the emotions called forth by the night rather than to record its picturesque qualities. The colour blue conveys the mysticism and melancholy of the landscape, which seems full of premonitions. An abstract mound at the right represents a clump of trees; a white fence runs diagonally in front. The vaguely defined shape on the fence may be a shadow of two lovers, a recurring theme in Munch's work. He used an undulating line to depict the shoreline that continues into the trees at the right. Stars reflect in the water, and a flash of light in the trees shines brightly. Varying thicknesses of blue and green paint are blended to form the impression of a night sky. Some areas are thickly painted, while others are left bare to convey the lighter segments of the sky or a celestial phenomenon.",
    "19115": "This small triptych, made for private devotion, was dismembered in 1816 and reunited only in 1974 in the Louvre. The central panel depicts the Rest on the Flight into Egypt, while the left and right wings represent St John the Baptist and St Mary Magdalen, respectively.",
    "7427": "This panel was part of a larger altarpiece. It was the base of the Coronation of the Virgin, now in the National Gallery, London. It was cut from the bottom of the Coronation at some date before 1828 - the year in which the panel entered the Christ Church Collection in Oxford. In the Oxford panel are the fragmentary figures of John the Baptist on the left, wearing a rich lilac cloak over his camel-hair tunic, and a deacon saint carrying a banner on the right, who is almost certainly identifiable as St Stephen.",
    "4329": "This is one of the earliest of the middle-class conversation pieces. It is typical of the early phase of Dutch genre painting, as can be seen from the limited amount of background, the figures made to turn so that they can be shown full face, the bright, emphatic and varied colours. A map and musical instruments hang on the wall behind the figures, on the floor are weapons, a metal jug and a goblet, while a tiny monkey balances on the chair. Together these objects create an atmosphere of physical and intellectual pleasure, and suggest the thrill of foreign travel and the conquest of distant lands.",
    "29450": "The picture represents scene 2 of the left wing, the Visitation.",
    "12863": "Members of the Medici family are portrayed in the youngest king's retinue. For example, the man riding on a brown mule has been identified as Cosimo de' Medici (1389-1464). Benozzo Gozzoli placed his own self-portrait  among the Medicis. His red cap bears the inscription BENOTII. He is standing behind two youths, who, it is now believed, portray Lorenzo and Giuliano de' Medici.",
    "11170": "Through the open window the Riva degli Schiavoni and the Campanile (bell tower) of he St Mark's Basilica can be seen. The campanile is represented with a temporary flat-roofed bell-chamber, which was in place from 1489 to 1511. The attribution to Giorgione is not universally accepted, some scholars attribute the painting to a painter close to Giorgione.",
    "6528": "The picture shows the centre of the ceiling in the Sala di Venere. It depicts The Youthful Hero Is Torn from the Arms of Venus by Apollo.",
    "7446": "In the centre the Coronation of the Virgin is depicted. The left wing shows the Nativity, while the right wing the Crucifixion.",
    "89": "The fruit and vegetables presented in Aertsen's paintings are peasant foods, but they are a feast for the eyes. His market scenes are not slices of everyday life, but plausible inventions. Many of the fruit and vegetables depicted in his work have sexual connotations and some of them were eaten as aphrodisiacs. In the present painting, the artist juxtaposes the biblical narrative with a market scene, encouraging beholders to ponder the relationship between love and lust, between sexual attraction and visual seduction. The foreground of the painting is filled with sexual innuendoes. On the left side, a man shows a woman his strings of onions. Although this may look innocent and mundane, onions were commonly used as aphrodisiacs. Furthermore, according to proverbial folklore, peeling an onion was like peeling off clothes, for it could easily result in tears. On the right, a man grasps a black rooster, a phallic allusion, in one hand, and an egg basket, a vaginal allusion, in the other.",
    "22611": "This panel is the right wing of a diptych, which is called Löwenstein diptych after the donor portrayed on this panel. Count Georg von Löwenstein was the canon of Bamberg. The half-length portrait shows the elderly donor holding his thumb in a devotional book, apparently ruminating on its meaning. He rests on a parapet in strong light against a dark background. On the left wing of the diptych Christ is depicted as the Man of Sorrows.",
    "1004": "The present winter landscape with resting lancers by a bridge depicts a group of Cossacks, with lances, at rest in a hard winter landscape. Van Assche occasionally collaborated with Eugène Verboeckhoven (1799-1881), the figures and horses in the present painting were probably painted by Verboeckhoven.",
    "19641": "\"Amminadab begat Nahshon. Nahshon begat Salmon.\" (Matthew 1:4) The two lunettes at the ends of the side walls near the altar contain only two figures: a man, to whom the name inscribed on the tablet refers, and a woman. For the first time, in the Nahshon lunette, the two figures - seen alone and in profile - face in the same direction, without any concern for symmetry. The same orientation was employed for the principal figures in the lost Abraham-Jacob-Isaac-Judas lunette. The woman is depicted standing, with one foot resting on the stone seat, looking at herself in an oval mirror that she is holding in her hand, her elbow resting on the knee of her raised leg. Her back and head are bent forward, following the curve of the top edge of the lunette. She is wearing a green overdress, tied over the shoulders, and a rose blouse with rose-orange shadows. The complex style of her blond hair, knotted on the top of her head, from where a long ponytail hangs, emphasizes her clean-cut profile and the delicate passages of light and shade on her neck, on which a gold earring stands out. The pose of the woman is probably derived from a relief representing the muse Melpomene on a Roman sarcophagus. On the other side of the lunette, a youthful Nahshon, sits leaning back on the edge of the tablet, engrossed in reading the book open in front of him. His outstretched right leg rests on the wooden pedestal of the lectern holding the book, while the other one is bent, and his arms are folded. He is enveloped in an ample red mantle with gray-blue shadows and green lining and hood. The elegant nonchalance of the pose is well matched by the expression on his face - in shadow and framed by blond curls - which is that of a slightly sulky adolescent prince.",
    "28292": "The spectacular Sala Superiore (Upper Hall) on the upper floor of the Scuola Grande di San Rocco is one of the most impressive interiors in Venice. The chamber, with its simple, lucid design (note the fine arched Renaissance windows), is dominated by the splendid ceiling of gilt woodwork, in which Tintoretto set his paintings of stories from the Old Testament, while the walls are lined with episodes from the Gospels. The whole series was painted between 1576 and 1581, while Tintoretto was also working on the decorations in the Doge's Palace.",
    "18777": "The outstanding painter in Cologne at the turn of the century, this unknown artist is named after the Saint Bartholomew Altarpiece now in Munich, and is also the author of a much larger version of the Deposition, now in the Louvre. In both the Paris and the National Gallery pictures the scene appears to take place within a carved and gilded shrine, mimicking the sculpted German tabernacles of the fifteenth century with their Gothic tracery and painted statues. The theme is by these means set before our eyes in Cologne (or so it would have seemed to a contemporary viewer, kneeling before this picture in private devotion). The rocks and skull of the foreground, however, specify the historic location of the Crucifixion: Calvary or Golgotha ('place of a skull' in the languages of the Gospels). Like a medieval schoolmaster, the artist sets out to teach us the steps to Christian spirituality. Attracting us by pattern, gold and rich colour, he leads us on to sensory empathy, first of a pleasurable kind, with the rich textures of the worldly Magdalen's brocade and the gorgeous pearls and tassel of old Joseph, the 'rich man of Arimathea' (Matthew 27:57). Then he takes us beyond pleasure, to the hard wood of ladder and cross, to physical pain and mortal sorrow. Huge beads of blood spring from the open wounds of Christ, and oversize tears glisten on the cheeks of the other figures. Their eyes are red-rimmed from weeping. Christ's arms are locked in rigor mortis and his body is turning grey with death. As the vivid devotional manuals of the time taught, we must impress his message on pur hearts, reliving in meditation this most sorrowful moment of the Passion. Only then can we succeed in the mystics' goal of the Imitation of Christ and his saints. The figures are carefully differentiated: Nicodemus on the ladder lowers the body of Christ to Joseph of Arimathea, who has donated his own tomb for Christ's burial. Saint John supports the fainting Virgin. Mary Magdalene at the foot of the cross clutches her head, almost doubled up with grief. A young helper has hooked his leg around the cross piece, and the two other Maries stand in the back, the one praying, the other contemplating the crown of thorns as she comforts the Magdalen. Men and women, young and old, rich and poor, find their place before their crucified Saviour.",
    "19774": "Van Mieris depicts Mary Magdalene with her hair worn down, her soft locks flowing over her bare shoulder and her right breast tantalisingly revealed. This revealing state of undress was a particular iconography associated with Mary Magdalene. The motif of one bare breast was particularly popular in art of the seventeenth-century.",
    "23347": "The commission of this painting, originally intended for the Church of San Francesco al Monte in Perugia, was first awarded to Perugino, who entrusted it to his pupil. The altarpiece combines two scenes common in Quattrocento iconography: the Coronation (which occupies the upper part of the picture) and the Giving of the Girdle to St Thomas (in the lower part), an episode traditionally associated with the Assumption. The two scenes remain separate from one another, and this clear division of the composition may indicate the painter's uncertainty of his compositional abilities. Nevertheless, the forms are already mature and certain innovations in perspective - such as the diagonal representation of the Madonna's tomb - constitute a departure from traditional Quattrocento compositional types. Extant drawings demonstrate the tremendous amount of thought which Raphael put into the panel's realization and some details, notably the highly individual faces of the Apostles and the serene landscape in the background, are quite masterful. But the most meaningful passages are found in the predella scenes: the vast space which opens out beneath the colonnades of the Annunciation; the highly animated Adoration of the Magi; and the free quality of the atmosphere in the Presentation in the Temple, which foreshadows the extraordinary spatial intuition of some of the artist's future Vatican compositions.",
    "911": "Portrayed next to Archduke Maximilian II is his wife Maria of Spain and three of their children. In front is the oldest daughter, Anna, the later wife of Philip II of Spain, behind are the sons Rudolf, later Emperor Rudolf II and in the cradle Archduke Ernst. This painting is a copy by Arcimboldo after an original executed in 1553-54 by an unknown artist who based his work on full-figure portraits by Jacob Seisenegger and Anthonis Mor.",
    "10802": "St Jerome, wearing a torn penitential robe, is looking across at St Barbara. His wiry, semi-naked body seems to have been ravaged by the hardships of his hermit life. In his right hand he is holding a stone with which to beat himself. His stance is reminiscent of classical contrapposto, his right foot protruding out of the space of the niche across the painted cornice.",
    "9351": "This painting presents a view of Paestum from the west with the temples of Poseidon and Ceres. Fabris is known to have painted Paestum on other occasions, too. Paestum was a Graeco-Roman town south of Naples founded at the end of the seventh century BCE.",
    "14275": "One of the panels of the Twelve Apostles Altar depicts the Circumcision.",
    "16939": "In the bottom scene of the second panel depicting stories of St Nicholas, he is elected his city's bishop.",
    "17246": "This altarpiece is the most important surviving example of a number of works Lotto is known to have painted for churches in and around Treviso during his second period of residence in Treviso (1542-45). It was commissioned by the prioress of the Dominican nunnery of San Paolo. The church of San Paolo, destroyed after the suppression of the nunnery in 1810, had three chapels at the east end, the Pietà was placed in the chapel to the left of the high altar. The Pietà is characterized by a mood of profound melancholy, expressed both by the anguished facial expression and by the encircling darkness. The painting is reminiscent of Botticelli's Lamentation, a painting that Lotto could have seen thirty years earlier in Florence, and it may have been responding to one of the most important examples of central Italian Mannerism seen in Venice, Salviati's Lamentation painted during 1539-41.",
    "28132": "This scene is on the wall of the room with simulated Gothic architecture in the Foresteria of the Villa Valmarana. In this scene two noblewomen, wrapped in their warmest clothing, return home after a brief walk in the country accompanied by another woman who could perhaps be a maidservant.",
    "22630": "In the foreground various farm animals go about their business surrounded by a jumble of baskets and buckets, a barrel, a wheel, a harness, a broken pot, a shoe, and an old hat.",
    "150": "The ceiling painting represents Jupiter and Ganymede. The architectural painting was executed by the specialist Angelo Michele Colonna.",
    "20273": "In some respects this work is associated with the point in Morazzone's career when he was working on the frescoes in the seventh chapel at the Sacro Monte, Varese. The painting may be viewed as a symbol of the tireless search for subtleties and depth of feeling that marked the Counter-Reformation spirit of seventeenth-century Lombard painting. Having abandoned the profane elegance of the preceding period, it strains for a programmed mortification of the senses. The corrupt and corruptible body is the principal subject, and tears and sorrow prevail. Intended to show a forthright, almost brutal realism, this St Francis achieves the opposite effect. From its insistent \"reality\" there emerges an absolute abstraction, an entirely expressionistic unreality. Impetuous rhythms explode in and around the metallic brown habit, the claw-like hands, the drawn mask of the face, the agitated sky and the highlights on the figure.",
    "21899": "Formerly attributed to Leonardo, the name of Perugino is however accepted now unanimously. It is a painting of great beauty, and particularly happy both as conception and execution with its finely graduated, sensitive colour, low in tone and warmly brown. It comes very near to Raphael. Perugino's Magdalen is characteristic of his favoured type, with an oval, light-filled face delineated with delicately small features. Nonetheless, it could almost be a portrait, and might even have been one. In fact Perugino was skilled in that growing genre, in which his tight applications were able to register likenesses.",
    "24973": "In this work the main character is the colour, and the colour is devoted to one end: a violent and emotional expressiveness which overrides everything else, and seeks only to provoke in the spectator a thrill of horror and grief comparable with that which shattered the men and women who helped to lift Christ from the Cross and bury Him. The drawing is not conceived as a means of describing forms, but as a means of stating ideas. The light is not a normal illumination nor even a poetic evocation: the scene is lit as if by lightning, and in the blinding flash the figures are frozen in their attitudes and even in their thoughts, while the great limp body of the dead Christ, livid green with reddish hair and beard, dangles perilously as his dead weight almost slips from the grasp of the men straining on the ladders. Rosso too acknowledges, as the Pontormo Deposition does, Michelangelo's Roman Pietà, but the Christ of the Deposition is far more closely connected with a drawing for a Pietà which Michelangelo made about 1519-20, and which haunted Rosso to the end of his life. The painting was previously located in the Duomo of Volterra, but has been moved to the town art gallery.",
    "20457": "The scene of Christ's prayer on the Mount of Olives is followed by Christ before Pilate. The Roman procurator has just pronounced the death sentence and is washing his hands as  a sign that he is innocent of the death of the Lord.",
    "19238": "The altarpiece was executed between 1329 and 1333 for the chapel of Sant'Ansano of the Cathedral in Siena by Simone Martini and his brother-in-law Lippo Memmi, to whom are attributed the two lateral figures: Saint Ansano - patron of Siena - and Saint Giulitta. On the gold background the figures of Angel Gabriel and the Virgin enhances Gothic line, without narrative details: just the central pot with lilies, symbolizing Mary's purity, and the olive branch. The golden relief inscription starting from the Angel's mouth contains beginning words of the Annunciation.",
    "20491": "This picture appears to be a more complex and personalized version of Woman in Three Stages (1895), with an innocent woman in white on the left, a sensual woman dancing with the man, and an anguished woman in black on the right. All three resemble Tulla Larsen; the girls dancing in the background may also represent her. The man in the foreground appears to be Munch. The dramatic romantic involvement with the Norwegian woman, Tulla Larsen, caused Munch to seek to restore his nervous and physical strength in the sanatorium of Kornhaug in Gudbrandsdalen in 1899-1900.",
    "27056": "In the former sacristy chapel, which is now only a passageway, Massimo Stanzione decorated the ceiling in 1644. Although Stanzione specialised in altarpieces, he was also highly successful in Naples as a wall and ceiling painter. In accordance with the technical realities of the medium, in these works the richly contrasting chiaroscuro of his oil paintings gives way to buoyant, saturated colours clearly influenced by the Bolognese artists. The vault of the former sacristy chapel is the best example of his style as a painter in fresco, one schooled in the academic painting of Rome but enlivened by a Neapolitan temperament. The decorative system on the ceiling frames an arrangement of pictures. There are four scenes from the Passion in the vault's spandrel: Nailing to the Cross; Erecting of the Cross; Longinus Piercing Christ in the Side with His Spear; Descent from the Cross. In the centre of the vault the scene of the Ascension of Christ is depicted. Four Old Testament scenes are in the pear-shaped cartouches around the central scene, between them the four evangelists are represented in a scale far larger than that of the figures in the paintings.",
    "15990": "This painting belongs to a group of the finest and most original compositions by the Le Nain brothers with which the name of Louis had long been associated. Among the small group of outdoor scenes by the Le Nain brothers, this is perhaps the only true landscape. Even the comparable Landscape with Peasants and a Chapel (Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford), the focus is on the figures in the foreground, who largely block the view into the distance. In the Landscape with Peasants, on the other hand, the crisply drawn and strongly individuated figures take second place to the compelling view of open fields and sky. Many writers have remarked on Le Nain's independence from both the convention of classical landscape made famous by Claude Lorrain and Poussin and the formulas of the naturalistic Dutch landscape painters.",
    "22176": "The group on the left side is closed by the image of the peasant resting wearily on his spade, seen in left profile. He wears an intensely black woolen jacket, left open over an ample white blouse. His beret is white and stands out in contrast against the black hair and thick beard.",
    "16265": "This painting is a sketch for a tapestry series of Frederick I's deeds. It shows the extravagant yet isolated character of the court of Prussia's first king.",
    "13480": "This picture shows a detail of one of the landscapes in the Hall of the Caesars.",
    "6992": "To the rigorous, perfectly Renaissance Dürer, troubled by the question of the proportions of the human body, Cranach, in his nudes, responds by freeing himself from every rule and from any observation of anatomical accuracy. His figures are elongated out of all proportion, seem boneless and are shown in affected, theatrical poses. The naked bodies, ivory-coloured against a dark background, emanate a totally cold, intellectual eroticism. The effect is accentuated in this work, for example, by the malicious gesture with which Eve holds out the apple, with her other hand bent unnaturally to hold the frond which covers her loins, but above all by the sly expression on her slightly cruel face. Attributed once to Albrecht Dürer, the work is documented in Florentine Medicean collections yet in 1688.",
    "10967": "In the harrowing scene of the Slaughter of the Innocents in the background, Berenson recognized the hand of Bartolomeo di Giovanni, the author of the stories from the predella, whom he poetically called \"Domenico's friend\". The town beyond this, in which we can see monuments such as the Colosseum, Trajan's Column, the Torre delle Milizie, and a pyramid, is meant to be reminiscent of Rome.",
    "24314": "The canvas is held in a carved Chippendale style giltwood frame.",
    "4370": "This painting is more academic than Impressionist in character. It depicts an intersection near the Saint-Lazare railway station with a wide-angle view. The lines of receding perspective in Caillebotte's work can often draw us with a disquieting violence into a picture's spatial depth: his perspective recalls the engineer's drawing board. This is true of his large, atmospheric painting of the Place de l'Europe on a rainy day as well. Renoir was to paint a similar scene some years later, but his canvas presented a graceful throng of beautiful women and children. Caillebotte's painting, by contrast, uses wide, open spaces and figural tensions. His people straightforwardly want to get somewhere. The man in the foreground, so close that he is about to step out of the canvas and has had to be cropped below the knee, has the look of a conqueror, the woman on his arm a companion with the air of an afterthought despite her prettiness.",
    "13538": "The painting is one of Guardi's numerous views in the Lisbon collection. It represents the square with the decorations set up for the Ascension Day Fair.",
    "7544": "By painting of faceless mother with faceless children Daumier express his attitude towards the society and its historical moment. Mother could be interpreted as a metaphor of social injustice but also as embodiment of dignity of poor.",
    "976": "The painting represents an unidentified gentleman seated at a desk with books, papers and a sheet of music.",
    "1667": "The picture shows the octagon with Steadfastness of the Macedonian Boy. The female figures are Camilla and Hypsicratea.",
    "19971": "Joos de Momper followed in the tradition of panoramic landscape established by Patenier and Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The familiar formula of placing browns in the foreground, greens in the middle and light blues in the background establishes the sense of aerial space; also the dark shapes of flying birds against the hazy blues and whites of the sky compound the effect. In the foreground comes the usual picturesque group of figures.",
    "19993": "This painting depicts travellers passing through a village in winter. The figures were painted by Jan Brueghel the Elder - Joos de Momper's friend and frequent collaborator. The crisply drawn figures by Brueghel complement perfectly Momper's own distinctive handling.",
    "31358": "Rarer in religious iconography, the Return from the Flight to Egypt portrays the return journey of the Holy Family and Christ as an older child to Nazareth, which they had left to escape the fury of Herod. Set in a panoramic landscape, the scene describes the crossing of a river. The Family is sitting in a boat steered by two boatmen, one perched on the bow and the other on the stern. The Virgin, Joseph, Christ and their donkey are all on board. A fifth person is not identified.",
    "21083": "This view of the Strozzi Chapel in the Santa Maria Novella in Florence shows the fresco cycle by Nardo di Cione of the Last Judgment (rear wall), the Paradise (left wall) and the Hell (right wall) executed in the 1350s. The altarpiece is by Orcagna, the brother of Nardo. The figures in the stained glass window are the Madonna and Child, and the Dominican Saint Thomas Aquinas. Orcagna's altarpiece and Nardo's frescoes form a unified programme.",
    "18719": "Joseph of Arimathaea and Nicodemus show the body of Christ to the faithful. The donor is touching the Saviour's hand. On the left wing is St Andrew with some of the donor's nephews, on the right is St Thomas with more of them. The triptych comes from the Stiftskirche of St Andrew in Cologne.",
    "8955": "Van Dyck's presentation of the story is based on a work by his great artistic hero, Titian. In fact, this canvas is one of the earliest examples of Van Dyck's emulation of Titian, whose work he would assiduously copy and collect for the rest of his career. Titian's Tribute Money also shows Christ being interrogated by two Pharisees in front of an open sky and a column.",
    "14230": "Van der Helst's life-size Abraham del Court and Maria de Keersegieter of 1654 shows him at the top of his form as a portraitist of private patrons. The drawing of the elegant married couple seated in a garden is faultless and the rendering of their costly garments, the very last word in haut couture among the elite circles, is rendered with technical perfection. Nothing is known about del Court as a connoisseur of painting but he certainly was an expert on textiles. He was a cloth merchant and served a term as an official of Amsterdam's textile guild. He must have taken as much delight as his wife did in van der Helst's depiction of Maria's silvery-white satin gown enhanced by the play of light on the silver braid along its front and lower edge. The thorny rose Maria holds probably alludes to the pains and pleasures of love, the fountain in the garden to fecundity, and del Court's gentle support of his wife's wrist to the concord of their joined status. Van der Helst received more commissions than he could handle and not all of them attain the high quality of the del Court double portrait. Marked variations in execution of signed paintings done in the same year signal that he employed assistants to help him meet the demand. One is documented: in I652 Marcus Waltersz (or Waltusz) agreed to paint and serve him for twelve months for three guilders, three stuivers per week. His contract stipulated he was to work for ten hours a day during the summer months and from dawn until dusk during the winter. For his part van der Helst agreed to teach him as much as possible, and further, on days when Marcus was scheduled to act at the theatre his master was to give him the afternoon free without docking his weekly wage. Nothing more is known about Marcus's activity as an aspiring painter or actor.",
    "5259": "The stark contrasts of black and white, and the emphasis on lines give the painting a strongly graphic quality. It is hardly surprising to learn that Casas was close to Toulouse-Lautrec and also did posters and graphic work. In fact he did some two hundred charcoal portraits of famous contemporaries.",
    "1392": "The polyptych of the Coronation of the Virgin, signed and dated 1388 by Bartolo di Fredi, was executed for a chapel in the church of San Francesco in the town of Montalcino to the south of Siena. The painter appears to have had a number of other connections with Montalcino, both as an agent for the Sienese government (in 1375 and 1376) and as a painter - securing at least four major commissions in the 1380s and 1390s. This altarpiece, which approaches the scale and complexity of the front face of Duccio's Maesta and of Pietro Lorenzetti's Carmelite altarpiece, offers a compelling example of the ambition of Sienese altarpiece design in the 1380s. The central panel displays an elegant representation of the Virgin at the moment of her coronation as queen of heaven. Above this arresting image is a smaller painting of the Virgin of the Assumption, a subject with strong political overtones for the Sienese and their subjects. The remaining panels are devoted to scenes from the early life of the Virgin and the events surrounding her death and assumption. The narrative follows a sequence that begins on the left-hand side of the predella, progresses from left to right across the predella and then proceeds from the lower left to lower right of the side panels, ending with the upper left and upper right side panels.",
    "17247": "A characteristic feature of the painting is the motif of the Virgin falling into a deathly swoon. This motif was probably requested by the prioress and her theological adviser.",
    "31191": "The polyptych, which shows the Crucifixion in the centre, two registers of scenes from the Passion of Christ at the sides, and half-length portraits of saints and prophets in the cusps, comes from the convent of Corpus Christi. The polyptych was executed with the assistance of the workshop. It is presently deposited at the Gallerie dell'Accademia.",
    "31566": "During the early eighteenth century the lute was replaced by guitar in the artistic depiction of musical groups and other amorous scenes. The fashionable instrument appears in a number of Watteau's canvases showing garden parties or intimate duets. The erotic connotation remained unchanged. Watteau's contemporary Bernard Picard accompanied his engraving entitled Concert in the Park with a few playful couplets about the contest between Apollo and Amor, which can be summed up this way: \"Both of them was victorious; Apollo at the beginning, Amor at the end.\" The contemporary public certainly noted the piquant allusions and understood the ironic innuendo. The painting depicts the moment when the two musicians \"tune on\" before a performance. The singer gives the initial tone, and the accompanist finds the matching chord. This playful context is well matched by the virtuoso placing of the two figures within the diagonal composition, by the gentle harmony of pastel colours and by the formal lightness of the composition.",
    "5633": "Cézanne painted three large versions of the female bathers, all during the last seven years of his life. The version in Philadelphia is the largest. This was the first time that Cézanne had painted such a monumental canvas. Two other versions are in The Barnes Foundation, Merion, and in the National Gallery, London. The figures in all three compositions are remarkably simply and coarsely painted. The female creatures frolicking on the riverbank are not graceful, rather they are sturdy, angular, oddly proportioned and plump, and have nothing erotic about them. Cézanne avoided any suggestion of individuality and instead has generalised the figures in the same way as the landscapes, so that both have equal artistic weight. In the Philadelphia version, Cézanne has focused on the trunks which bear the weight of the trees. These create a framework which is both static and dynamic. The figures are also aligned in the same way as the trees; this is probably most apparent  in the female figure on the far left, whose upper body and left leg are inclined at exactly the same angle as the tree trunk. However, the contours and arms of the other figures also echo the geometry of the framework. Cézanne spent more than seven years working on this version. The strict triangular composition makes it the most classical of this series.",
    "12552": "This composition, showing a playful Christ Child, who lifts his mother's veil in a game of peekaboo, became very popular in many versions produced by other artists at the end of Gossart's life and thereafter. The original appearance of this small painting must have been more striking than it is today. In addition to somewhat abraded flesh tones and faded pink touches in the Virgin's lip, the cloth on the table has significantly faded.",
    "16505": "The picture shows a view of the Carafa Chapel from the northwest. On the left wall the tomb monument to Pope Paul IV Carafa can be seen. It was installed in 1566 in place of some of the paintings by Lippi.",
    "13681": "This charming and still complete triptych, encased by an elaborately carved engaged frame, was painted by the Venetian artist Guglielmo Veneziano who was active in the second half of the14th century. The central panel of the triptych shows the Crucifixion, while the left wing represents a Bishop Saint and the Archangel Gabriel above, the right wing depicts a monastic saint, possibly Saint Augustine, and the Madonna Annunciate above.",
    "3779": "By about 1540 Bronzino had undoubtedly become the darling of the Medici court and Florentine aristocracy, not least thanks to his literary talents, for he was also poet. He alternated his production of smooth, almost crystalline portraits, with noteworthy decorative schemes, such as the frescos in the Medici villas, the redecoration of the private apartments in the Palazzo Vecchio or designing tapestries for the Grand Duke. From 1560 onward, he produced more religious paintings for altars in the major Florentine churches. These reveal his limits as a painter. This altarpiece was executed for the Chapel of Eleonora in the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence. The chapel is located on the second floor of the palace and it served as the private chapel of the duchess, Eleonora of Toledo, daughter of the Viceroy of Naples, and wife of Cosimo I de' Medici. The painting occupied the end wall of the small chapel flanked by St John the Baptist and St Cosmas. The painting was finished in 1545 and was sent in the same year to Besançon to the private secretary of Emperor Charles V with whom Cosimo had important negotiations. Since 1553 a replica by Bronzino replaces the altarpiece. Later the two side panels were also replaced by the figures of an Annunciation. The picture shows the replica of the painting.",
    "24383": "This picture, restored in 1965, is the counterpart of the painting Landscape with Watering Horses. Both are fairly well-known works, dating from about 1720. In the background of the latter the valley of the River Piave is depicted. Generally, this picture is considered to be one of Marco Ricci's masterpieces. The artist had a harassed life of hardship trailing off to a sad end, if the chroniclers — rather than the critics — are to be believed. Apprenticed to his uncle Sebastiano, he savoured the ferment of new stirrings in the world of Venetian art. It brought forth in him a narrative streak in what was just then fairly taking over the Venetian art scene—landscape painting. Drinking in the Flemish Tempesta's landscapes, Magnasco's vibrant artistry, all that he saw and assimilated on his frequent travels alone and with his uncle he converted, in an intense and many-sided creative zeal, into forms all his own. Pallucchini and Valcanover (1951, 1955) admit \"the difficulty, to this day, of reconstructing Marco Ricci's art, in view of the total lack of data\". Though Goering's chronology had been lengthy and cumbersome enough, Ivanoff (Emporium, 1948) included in it this picture, too, for he considered it the beginning of a trend leading from the chiaroscuro style of the Baroque towards the colourful light effects of the eighteenth century. Later, in 1957, Pallucchini stated that these light effects were inevitable in view of Ricci's links with the countryside. The historian Zanetti mentioned that like a \"pilgrim\", Ricci used to return to the region of Belluno, where he found ideas for his painting and matured his new techniques. The picture itself portrays the sense of the place by the unbroken, atmospheric flow of light, which makes the chiaroscuro verticals of the group of trees even more striking. This new susceptibility was nothing more than a novel approach to reality, which sprung out of the shadow of the rhetoric which had preceded it. It almost seems as if the light itself enjoyed setting off the figures in the foreground while harmonically inundating the background. Yes, here lies a new pictorial approach.",
    "1489": "Resurrection of Christ was commissioned for the Chiesa del Santissimo Redentore (Church of the Most Holy Redeemer) - church built in thanksgiving for deliverance from the plague that decimated Venice from 1575 to 1576, in which some 46,000 people died. The Senate commissioned the great architect Andrea Palladio to design it. Construction began in May 1577. The building was in a satisfactory stage and was consecrated in 1592. The church is located on Giudecca, one of the islands of Venice, on the waterfront of the Canale della Giudecca. Resurrection of Christ stands in the second altarpiece on the left side.",
    "29758": "This detail shows a fortified city.",
    "10243": "This fresco is located behind the smaller tomb on the north wall of the Bardi di Vernio Chapel in Santa Croce, Florence. This tomb (the arcosolium, an arched recess used as a place of entombment) was for the female members of the patron family. The front wall with prophets was painted by Maso di Banco, the interior of the niche is attributed to Taddeo Gaddi.",
    "29107": "The upper scene depicts the Triumph of Jupiter as an allegory of July. Below, astrological symbols are represented. The attribution to Tura is debated.",
    "8780": "The altarpiece depicts the legend of the ten thousand Christians who were martyred on Mount Ararat, in a massacre perpetrated by the Persian King Saporat on the command of the Roman Emperors Hadrian and Antonius. Dürer had depicted this massacre a decade earlier in a woodcut. The painting was commissioned by Frederick the Wise, who owned relics from the massacre, and it was placed in the relic chamber of his palace church in Wittenberg. Although Dürer had never before tackled a painting with so many figures, he succeeded in integrating them into a flowing composition using vibrant colour. Dürer's gruesome scene depicts scores of Christians meeting a violent death in a rocky landscape, providing a veritable compendium of tortures and killings. The oriental potentate in the blue cloak and turban who is directing the action in the lower right corner of the picture, would in Dürer's time have been perceived as a reference to the threat of Turkish invasion, because of the seizure of Constantinople in 1453. In the centre of the painting is the rather incongruous figure of the artist, holding a staff with the inscription: 'This work was done in the year 1508 by Albrecht Dürer, German.' The man walking with him through this scene of carnage is probably the scholar Konrad Celtis, a friend of Dürer's who had died just before the painting was completed.",
    "27359": "This portrait belongs to Strozzi's mature Venetian years. The man portrayed here has yet to be identified and is distinguished solely by the large white octagonal cross on his robe, demonstrating that he is a member of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.",
    "9411": "Paolo Farinati (also called Farinato) was a Veronese painter, the uncle of Giambattista Zelotti who collaborated with Paolo Veronese and Fasolo. In a career spanning over sixty years Farinati was a prominent figure in Verona's artistic scene and, though rarely venturing beyond his home city, his influence reached as far as Garda and Piacenza. The dark palette and partial lighting of the face and hands are typical of Venetian portraiture at that time. Although the portrait has been attributed to Paolo Farinati, it could also be a Flemish work from the circle of Rubens.",
    "28542": "Titian was neither such a universal scholar as Leonardo, nor such an outstanding personality as Michelangelo, nor such a versatile and attractive man as Raphael. He was principally a painter, but a painter whose handling of paint equalled Michelangelo's mastery of draughtsmanship. This supreme skill enabled him to disregard all the time-honoured rules of composition, and to rely on colour to restore the unity which he apparently broke up. We need but look at Madonna with Saints and Members of the Pesaro Family which was begun only some twenty years after Giovanni Bellini's Madonna with saints to realize the effect which his art must have had on contemporaries. It was almost unheard of to move the Holy Virgin out of the centre of the picture, and to place the two administering saints - St Francis, who is recognizable by the Stigmata (the wounds of the Cross), and St Peter, who has deposited the key (emblem of his dignity) on the steps of the Virgin's throne - not symmetrically on each side, as Giovanni Bellini had done, but as active participants of a scene. In this altar-painting, Titian had to revive the tradition of donors' portraits, but did it in an entirely novel way. The picture was intended as a token of thanksgiving for a victory over the Turks by the Venetian nobleman Jacopo Pesaro, and Titian portrayed him kneeling before the Virgin while an armoured standard-bearer drags a Turkish prisoner behind him. St Peter and the Virgin look down on him benignly while St Francis, on the other side, draws the attention of the Christ Child to the other members of the Pesaro family, who are kneeling in the corner of the picture. The whole scene seems to take place in an open courtyard, with two giant columns which rise into the clouds where two little angels are playfully engaged in raising the Cross. Titian's contemporaries may well have been amazed at the audacity with which he had dared to upset the old-established rules of composition. They must have expected, at first, to find such a picture lopsided and unbalanced. Actually it is the opposite. The unexpected composition only serves to make it gay and lively without upsetting the harmony of it all. The main reason is the way in which Titian contrived to let light, air and colours unify the scene. The idea of making a mere flag counterbalance the figure of the Holy Virgin would probably have shocked an earlier generation, but this flag, in its rich, warm colour, is such a stupendous piece of painting that the venture was a complete success.\"",
    "23593": "The myth of Cupid and Psyche is depicted on the loggia of Agostino Chigi's villa. Cupid fell in love with the daughter of a king, but had to remain unrecognized by her, and so came to her only at night. After Psyche had undergone many difficult trials, Zeus made her immortal, and allowed her to marry Cupid. The unusual subject seems to be a reference to the much yearned for marriage between Chigi and Francesca Ordeaschi, with whom he already had four children. The ceremony took place on 28 August 1519. The conclusion of the Psyche story takes place in two broad format paintings in the vault panel. Raphael places these scenes in an illusionistic tapestry that appears to be hung between the garlands. Thus the artist avoids the extreme foreshortening that would have been required of an illusionistic prospect of the sky in this same place. On the right Raphael depicts the council of the gods in which Jupiter decides to accept Psyche and mercury gives her the drink of immortality. Then the wedding is celebrated in the painting on the left. The groupings of figures spread out before us like antique reliefs; the communal life of the gods is unfolded for us in a witty characterization of their all too human feelings.",
    "6604": "The upper scene depicts the Triumph of Venus as an allegory of April. Below, astrological symbols are represented.",
    "16604": "In the centre foreground of the altarpiece, a group of saints congregate. They are robustly rendered and without identifying attributes for the most part. Lippi had recourse to tiny lettering inscribed across their clothing to label some of these very human-looking heavenly courtiers as \"sacred.\" Among them is a saintly family, very prominently displays at the right, disposed outward toward the viewer.",
    "29830": "The lunette of the laast bay contains what may be the most charming picture of the cycle. Here we see an apothecary's shop, offering as was custumary, wax amulets, candles, sponges, and sweets, in addition to the expected oils, essences in their owm special jars, and dried herbs and spices.",
    "2614": "This painting is called the Madonna of the Orchestra. Ideas that are at once similar to yet different from the Madonna del Pergolato emerge in this smaller altarpiece, which was painted in Perugia about a decade later. The expressive di sotto in sù perspective lends a sort of monumentality to the blond, music-making angels playing a variety of instruments - including a lute, tambourine, cymbals, rebec, reed pipe and harp - as they stand on a high, semicircular podium around the Virgin's throne; together with two additional angels in the foreground playing a portable organ and a zither, they give the painting its traditional name: the Madonna of the Orchestra. What is striking here with respect to the Pergolato Altarpiece is the new, systematic insistence on a marble revetment, although the effect is tempered by the meadow in the foreground emphasized by the two little angels who kneel to pick flowers.",
    "10631": "Mary Magdalen was a much-loved subject both by painters and the public because she represented the ideal model of the search of virtue and the renunciation of worldly pleasures. Artemisia Gentileschi wished to recount the story of this difficult path in her portrayal of a young woman with wild hair wrapped in a magnificent yellow silk gown holding a mirror, the symbol of vanity and inscribed with the words Optimam partem elegit (\"you have chosen the best part\", namely virtue) away from her. The beam of intense light illuminates the figure from the right, a demonstration of the technique Artemisia would have learned by studying Caravaggio's works in Rome, and conveys the sense of drama that envelopes the subject. Mary Magdalen's inner turmoil is also a reflection of the painter's own difficult life, who only a few years previously had been raped and endured the shame of a trial. The human and professional parable of Artemisia Gentileschi, an extraordinary artist and a spirited woman, is thrilling because she is seen as forerunner of female talent, gifted with a unique character and strength of will. It was this talent that enabled her, on her arrival in Florence from Rome at a very young age, to enter into the Academy of Art and Design in Florence; to learn to read, to write, to play the lute and to become a part of the cultural world in every sense.",
    "14471": "The picture shows a detail of the Adoration of the Shepherds.",
    "3531": "This panel is one of the hundreds of night scenes which Bramer, one of the most successful artists in Delft, produced. The Magi, led by torch-bearing angels, have evidently just arrived at their destination, or are close enough to dismount. Considering that Bramer painted a considerable amount of pendant pictures, it has been suggested that the manger was depicted in a pendant panel representing the Adoration of the Shepherds.",
    "21754": "This painting depicts a still-life of an upturned vase of flowers, with a canvas painting showing St Joseph holding the Christ Child, and another showing St Nicholas of Bari.",
    "23096": "The best preserved Carolingian fresco cycle can be found in a remote valley in Graubünden, in the monastery church of Müstair. The church is dedicated to St John the Baptist, and it is generally believed to have been founded by in about 790, and probably by Charlemagne. One can assume that the frescoes were painted soon after the completion of the monastery church. Located in the apses, the paintings remained undiscovered until 1896 and were finally completely uncovered by 1950. Parts of the frescoes had been painted over in the twelfth century by artists belonging to the School of Salzburg. The artists who executed the paintings did not belong to Charlemagne's court school. Extensive commissions were taken on by itinerant artists who came from Italy and were trained in Byzantine style. The Byzantine influence can be found not only in the shapes but also in the treatment of the pictorial narrative, that is the manner in which the individual scenes are emphasized by the articulation of the architectural elements around them. The frescoes on the interior walls of the church date mostly from the early 9th century. At the top level are scenes from the live of David while most others are from the live of Christ. The west wall shows the Last Judgment.",
    "6575": "The painting above the month of April depicts the triumphal entry of Venus. From it a detail is presented here which shows lovers kneeling and embracing each other while surrounded by other youths and maidens. The figures at the edge of the group hold decorative lutes, while the central figure, immediately above the couple, bears a pair of flauti dolci (soft recorders). In this picture, music is in direct relation to love; it is an attribute of bodily pleasure. Especially characteristic is the role of the two flauti dolci, which, partly because of their suggestive shape became the symbol of fertility.",
    "6340": "The style of the artist is related to that of the schools of southern France, but its essential Spanishness is apparent in the sculptural modeling of the forms and the ornamentalism of the details. Andalusian imagination, grace, and elegance find expression in his treatment of space. The middle ground is occupied by the figures of the Virgin and the archangel in dazzling brocades, the background by a suite of rooms gleaming with tiles, and the foreground by a series of eight figures, separated from the middle zone by the baroque tracery of a balustrade. Well-studied lighting effects add to the beauty of this original painting, in which ochers and carmines predominate.",
    "27204": "The central panel (195 x 172 cm) represents the Crucifix with Mary and St John in a Gothic church decorated with scenes of the Passion. The setting is probably the main portal of the church of St Gudule in Brussels. The left wing (195 x 72 cm) represents the Last Judgment, with the seven acts of mercy (six on the Gothic arch, the seventh in two parts at the upper left and right corners. The right wing (195 x 72 cm) represents the Expulsion from the Paradise with the Temptation in the background. On the Gothic arch scenes of the Genesis are depicted. At the upper left and right corners are depicted God and the Creation of Eve, respectively.",
    "130": "In this sporting conversation piece two gentlemen with their guns and dogs rest at the edge of a wood; a third approaches them whilst a fourth, gun in hand, walks into the wood. The artist executed a number of sporting conversations of the present type which depict the Rural Squire enjoying his sport in the company of his friends. The figures are rather elongated in a slightly mannerist way and adopt curiously \"elegant\" poses.",
    "13044": "Possibly the sequel to the Christ driving the Traders from the Temple (Matthew, XXI, 14: 'And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple; and he healed them'). Both subjects were treated by El Greco more than once in Italy. This is the smallest known painting on canvas by El Greco. The painting has been cut and the group on the right is incomplete. No large-scale works are known from his Italian period, and most are quite small. He does not appear to have received any important commissions before he moved to Spain. Three versions of this subject are known, all basically the same in composition, but differing in treatment. The earliest, an unsigned panel in Dresden, is looser in composition, smaller in conception, and introduces genre motifs of a dog, sack and pitcher in the foreground, eliminated in subsequent versions. The present painting, probably also painted in Venice, is more easily composed. The third and largest painting, now in the Metropolitan Museum in New York (possibly identical with the one in a Madrid collection at the time of Cossio's pioneer work on El Greco), with its comparative largeness of conception, belongs to his Roman period, after 1570. El Greco did not again take up the subject in Spain. The inspiration is from Venice. The dramatic use of recession behind the figures in the foreground is Tintoretto's invention. El Greco is still borrowing certain motifs, but the composition would seem to be original. The painting was among the Farnese possessions in the seventeenth century, and was probably brought to Rome by the artist, unless it was painted soon after his arrival in 1570. The figure on the extreme left, looking out towards the spectator, is certainly the young El Greco. He appears, however, nearer twenty than thirty years old.",
    "17181": "The various narrative scenes on the long entrance wall (the south wall), depicted on a large scale in the foreground and a small scale in the landscape beyond, represent episodes from the life of St Brigid, an Irish nun venerated for her charitable activity on behalf of the poor and sick and, most appropriate in the context of the rural community of Trescore, as a protector of crops and farm animals against natural disasters. Thus, in the central section next to and above the doorway, the saint in her distinctive yellow habit is presented four times: in the left foreground she gives food (raw meat, which miraculously has failed to mark her habit) and drink (water miraculously transformed into beer) to two peasant women; to the right, she heals a blind man; in the left background she saves a flock of sheep from a wild boar; and in the right background she halts the advance of a devastating storm.",
    "24887": "Democritus, the great pre-Socratic philosopher and founder of a strictly materialist concept of the world sought new explanations for birth and death, appearance and disappearance. According to his theory of \"atomism\", atoms are the smallest parts of all substances, uniting and dividing in eternal swirling movements. His ethical system called for a life of moderation and tranquillity foregoing most sensual joys. Rosa depicts him in the traditional pose of melancholy, amidst a setting of decay, destruction and desolation. Animal skulls and bones, symbols of the past greatness of antiquity (vase, altar and herm) and symbols of fallen power (the dead eagle) are featured in this wasteland overcast with heavy grey clouds. An owl high in the tree is his only living companion, both a sign of night and of wisdom. Rosa's Democritus is not the philosopher who has reached the goal of his contemplation, nor does he represent serene tranquillity or the superior cognitive powers of the analytic mind. Instead, we see a forsaken thinker contemplating the things that have been the subject of his intellectual endeavours: death, the past, turbulent disquietude, fragmentation. The vanitas symbolism of the objects does not go unanswered: in the figure of the pensive philosopher lies the germ of a response, still caught in melancholy lethargy.",
    "20405": "This large Pantocrator icon was doubtless painted for the Local Tier of an iconostasis, where it was affixed next to the Royal Door on the right. In the icon Christ is depicted as Pantocrator (Ruler of All), portrayed frontally, seated on a throne, majestic like a Byzantine emperor. The dark-blue tunic decorated with fine gold strips (assist) over a dark-red undergarment; together with the background, which is covered in gold leaf, are to be understood as signs of Christ's divinity: his glory and immateriality symbolize divine transcendence. Christ holds an open book of gospels in which words from St John's gospel (14:6) can be seen, in Greek: \"I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life ...\" While the overwhelming majority of icons were created by anonymous masters, this one of the Pantocrator in majesty is signed and dated bottom right: \"1653. By the hand of Elias Moskos\". Elias Moskos originated from Rethymnon on Crete, and was one of the five most important Greek icon-painters of the 17th century. The battle for Crete between 1645 and 1669 and the final fall of the capital Candia (today's Herakleion) to the Turks forced many important painters into exile on the Ionian islands of Zakynthos, Corfu or Kefalonia. In 1646 Elias Moskos was one of those to settle on Zakynthos, where he lived and worked until his death on 26 January 1687. All his dated icons were painted either on Zakynthos or the neighbouring island of Kefalonia between 1649 and 1686. The one in Recklinghausen, dated 1653, is thus one of his early works. It is still in the tradition of Byzantine icon-painting, although most of his works were strongly influenced by Italian Mannerism.",
    "12899": "On the right edge of the picture the procession's vanguard is making an about-turn and with its heavily laden beasts of burden snaking up a slope towards the goal.",
    "2773": "The soft shape of the face, the rhythm of rounded lines forming a simple balanced composition, the man's thoughtful look seemingly detached from earthly realities - these elements speak of the influence of Giorgione, who ruled the minds of Venetian artists in the first half of the 16th century. This portrait, one of the few painted by Bonifacio Veronese, was formerly attributed  to Vincenzo Catena, Giovanni Cariani, Lorenzo Lotto, and others.",
    "6366": "The sitter of this portrait, depicted half length, wearing black with white sleeves and a black bonnet, is said to be Marie de Batarnay, the wife of René de Batarnay, Count of Bouchage. However, compared with other existing portraits of this couple, this identification is doubtful.",
    "22934": "In Greek legend Midas was a king of Phrygia who was granted a wish by Bacchus in return for a good deed he had done to Silenus, a follower of the god. Midas wished that everything he touched be turned to gold, but soon realized his mistake when all food became inedible. Bacchus ordered him to wash in the River Pactolus in Lydia. Hence the popular aetiology of the gold-bearing properties of the river, thought to have been the source of wealth of the kings of Lydia, of whom Croesus was the last. Midas is depicted penitently before Bacchus, a drunken Silenus sleeping nearby. Another version of the subject by Poussin (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York) depicts Midas washing in the river, while the river god reclines on his urn.",
    "27737": "This Caravaggesque painting depicts the moment when Esau returns home tired and hungry after a day in the fields. There he finds his brother Jacob eating a stew. Through hunger and exhaustion he accepts Jacob's proposal that he should sell him his birthright in exchange for the lentil stew. The two brothers are placed in the foreground on either side of the plate of stew, while behind them are their parents, Sarah and Isaac.",
    "663": "This is the fresco on the wall of Cell 6 of the Convento di San Marco in Florence. In this fresco Christ stands on a rock, prefiguring his rising from the tomb. His arms are outstretched and in this He also foreshadows his own crucifixion. He is voluminously clad in a sculptural mass of glowing white robe, and encircling Him is a radiant white mandorla. His forward gaze does not directly engage the eye of the spectator. At the base of the rock three of the Apostles crouch in awed positions, but they maintain the curious contemplative detachment from the drama of the scene which is the hallmark of this fresco cycle. At the edge of the fresco, on either side, stand the Virgin and St Dominic in positions indicative of prayer, stern and unresponsive to events around them. The heads of Moses and Elias appear beneath the arms of Christ; they are introduced as detached symbols to aid meditation. There is no attempt to create any more than the bare essentials of picture space; this particular spur to devotion required no more. For Angelico, too elaborate a spatial framework as much as excessive use of colour, decoration, or narrative, could detract from the picture's power.",
    "31174": "This great panel is the altar of the Chapel of the Milanese. Vivarini had not time to finish it before his death and the work was concluded by Marco Basaiti. The altarpiece presents the triumph of St Ambrose, patron saint of Milan, carrying a scourge in his right hand and a staff in his left. The shields at his back support the sword and the cross. On his right stand St John the Baptist, St Sebastian and St Louis IX, and on his left St Gregory the Great, St Augustine and St Jerome. Behind the two groups of saints are two anonymous heads that may be the priors of the brotherhood. At the foot of the throne two angels are playing the lute and the mandola. These are by Basaiti, as is St Sebastian. The damaged inscription at the foot of the throne was transcribed as: QUOD VIVARINI TUA FATALI SORTE NEQUISTI MARCUS BASITUS NOBILE PROMPSIT OPUS.",
    "8176": "In the painted niches at the attic level stand eight monumental figures wearing Byzantine vestments and identified by Greek inscriptions. They are bare-headed and wear halos. Closest to the chancel are Sts Basil, John Chrysostom, and Gregory of Nazianzus, venerated as hierarchs in Eastern Church. Secondary to them are the doctors of the church Cyril of Alexandria and John of Damascus, as well as the church fathers Athanasius the Great and Gregory of Nyssa. The eighth figure is St Nicolas of Myra. The patriarchs' bright colours and animated faces have been traced to Venetian precedents; however, the pattern for the overall arrangement could have been the fifteenth-century papal portraits in the Sistine Chapel. The distinct shadows the figures cast on the wall are prefigured there. The picture shows the niche which is located above the scene of Meeting of St Nilus with Emperor Otto III. It is occupied by St Basil.",
    "12150": "The right wing of the Portinari Triptych shows Tommaso Portinari's wife, Maria Baroncelli, with her elder daughter Margherita, accompanied by Mary Magdalene and St Margaret. The beast between them is a dragon, the attribute of St Margaret referring to the legend of St Margaret. According to the legend she was thrown into prison because she rejected Olybrius, the Roman governor. In the prison she was attacked by the Devil and, while at prayer, swallowed by a dragon. Since she was carrying a small crucifix she was able to cut a hole in the monster's belly and escaped.",
    "1503": "Jacopo Bassano's Last Supper is one of the masterpieces of 16th-century Italian painting. Instead of the elegant grouping of figures in Leonardo's painting, which inspired it, this dramatic scene features barefoot fishermen at the crucial moment when Christ asks who will betray him, and the light passing through a glass of wine stains the clean tablecloth red. Recent restoration has only now revealed the extraordinary original colours, which had been heavily painted over in the 19th century, when the emerald green and iridescent pinks and oranges were not in fashion.",
    "3342": "The companion piece The Setting of the Sun is also in the Wallace Collection. These extravagant and wonderful pictures show Apollo as God of the Sun leaving Tethys with her Nereids and Tritons in the river Ocean as he drives up the morning sun in his chariot drawn by four white horses, and then returning to her at nightfall. Boucher counted these amongst his most successful pictures.",
    "1647": "Beaumont's contribution to the painting of the Palazzo Reale includes, in addition to four living rooms, two galleries, of which the Galleria della Regina, later named after him, is one of the largest (60 m long) and the most magnificent of its kind. In 1833, it was separated from the palace complex, and has since served as the Armeria Reale, housing the Savoyard weapon collection. The subject of the ceiling painting in the Galleria is the legend of Aeneas, the mortal son of Venus who escaped from the burning Troy with his father and his son, and after many trials and misadventures landed at last at the mouth of the Tiber. There he became through his son Ascanius the progenitor of the gens Julia. The scenes in the large picture panels documents the most important stations on Aeneas's adventurous path. The picture shows one of the panels with Aeneas and Dido.",
    "22953": "In the early 1630s, Poussin was working on a major series of Bacchanals for Cardinal Richelieu which were designed to adorn his château near Orléans. The earliest of Poussin's bacchanals (not one intended for Richelieu) is the Bacchanal before a Statue of Pan in the National Gallery, London. The colours are conspicuously light, with pink and pale blue predominating. The painting was inspired by the Bacchanal of Titian in the Villa Aldobrandini in Rome.",
    "13182": "The sitter is usually identified as Cardinal Don Fernando Niño de Guevera (1541-1609), Grand Inquisitor and, from 1601, Archbishop of Seville. The painting was executed c. 1600, when Inquisitor-General, and certainly before he became Archbishop of Seville. He is one of a number of eminent ecclesiastics of Toledo portrayed by El Greco, and it is one of his finest portraits. The splendour and richness of colour is appropriate to the character and rank of the sitter. The frontal turn of the pose concentrates attention on the figure. El Greco suggests the cardinal's personality through the emphasis on his prominent glasses, the compulsive gesture of his left hand, the animated, nervous brushwork, and the singular colour range. The painting is signed on the creased paper on the floor. This celebrated picture - a landmark in the history of European portraiture - has become synonymous not only with El Greco but with Spain and the Spanish Inquisition.",
    "13293": "This moralizing genre painting is more overtly religious and Catholic than most of the artist's paintings. The scene is set in a rocky landscape, where the central figure, an elderly Capuchin friar, sits distributing rosaries to large group of girls and young women. The girls are bringing food to the hermit and, in return, he is giving them rosaries and votary medals, which he takes from a box held by a handsome young friar. The girls are dressed in ordinary gowns, apart from the two closest to the hermit who are all in white; they are receiving rosaries from him in preparation for their confirmation. The theme is one of charity, generosity and virtue: the young women are taking physical care of the hermit and he, in return, is giving them spiritual rewards.",
    "29877": "The earliest pre-Eyckian panel which survives in the Netherlands, The Calvary of Hendrik van Rijn, was painted by an Anonymous Utrecht (?) Master. According to the Latin inscription at the bottom, the donor, shown kneeling and in profile, is Hendrik van Rijn. He is significantly smaller than the saints who surround him: Christ on the cross, Mary and John. This memorial work was produced for Saint John's church in Utrecht, to commemorate Van Rijn, who was provost and archdeacon. The relief decoration in the background is particularly interesting, consisting as it does of gilded tiles with a lion motif, and refers to the reality of heaven.",
    "376": "In the upper left part of the fresco, St Peter is seen showing men and women the way to the gate of the heaven. Peter, at the opening of the gate, grants entry to a throng of elect who are being crowned with wreaths by angels.",
    "355": "The painting depicts an English 3rd-rate ship of the line (74 guns) in three positions off Table Mountain, Cape Town, South Africa, flying the Royal Nay ensign. The popularity and prestige of the large two-decker 74-gun Ships of the line (\"74\") reached its peak during the French Revolutionary War when the British found that not only did they sail better than the stately three-decker but that by superior gunnery and training their two-deckers could be a match for any enemy warship, even three-deckers of over one hundred guns. Napoleon Bonaparte was sent to St Helena in the Northumberland 74 after he had surrendered to the captain of Bellerophon 74. For years the very words seventy-four were synonymous to the British public with an invincible naval supremacy.",
    "5462": "The sobriety of both composition and description of surroundings in this expressive image, and the lack of artifice in the sitter's pose, stand in contrast with the exquisite, decorative character of his dress. The gentleman - his left hand on the pommel of his sword and the other, fist closed, on his hip - is shown standing within an undefined space, although the ample red drape and heavy tassel on the left suggest this is his residence. The figure's expression is firm and hardly affable, and this is finely rendered by the painter, without a trace of empathy.",
    "30517": "The painter shows us in the left part of the composition a table covered with a glowing Oriental rug pulled up in front. On it is a Delftware plate with fruit, a white pitcher, and an overturned glass or roemer in the foreground.",
    "17763": "Mantegna's first important commission from Ludovico Gonzaga was the decoration of the chapel in Castello di San Giorgio, executed in the first half of the 1460s. It is unfortunately impossible to reconstruct the whole of Mantegna's original intentions there with any confidence, although some panels almost certainly traceable to the chapel still survive. They include three paintings in the Uffizi: The Ascension of Christ, The Circumcision and The Adoration of the Magi. Today they are mounted as a triptych in the Uffizi with The Adoration of the Magi in the centre. They were given this format in 1827, but the inconsistencies in both composition and iconography indicate that these are individual works rather than parts of a uniformly planned altarpiece. Nevertheless, they were created for the same chapel. In the Ascension panel, above the saints, who gaze upwards, Christ floats somewhat stiffly, surrounded by a mandorla of angels. Immediately below Him stands Mary, occupying a special place in the lower section, the only figure facing forwards and slightly raised on a ledge of rock.",
    "19222": "The Virgin is in a loggia contained at the back by two small columns in reddish-brown marble and offering a view onto a wooded landscape. In front, on a parapet cut across by the edge of the painting, the Infant Christ sits on a cloth. He is restrained by the Virgin's left hand and from her right hand he is about to receive an apple, while with his own right hand he playfully reaches for his toe. In terms of its composition and typology, the painting exhibits the well-known Memling characteristics, but technically it is heavily executed with rough modelling of the hands, the features and the drapery. It has clearly been painted by an average follower of Memling. Similar robust features and a face with rather oriental eyes are to be seen in a number of other Memlingian Virgins at half length. So a master can be assumed who has concentrated mainly on imitating Memling's Virgin-and-Child types. The fact that the composition was repeated again and again and even by great painters such as Juan de Flandes and Jan Provoost indicates that a lost Memling prototype must have existed.",
    "7616": "The left panel of the triptych represents the donor, Jean Des Trompes, with his son Philip. Behind the donor his patron saint, St John the Evangelist can be seen. On the right panel the first wife of the donor is depicted with her four daughters and St Elisabeth of Hungary.",
    "2287": "The allegoric painting represents a kitchen scene with Christ in the House of Martha and Mary in the background.",
    "16192": "Mary's gaze is melancholy. She has recognized that her son must suffer his future fate. Her body still seems to be showing the tension of the previous moment when she wanted to pull her child away from the lamb, the symbol of his future suffering. St Anne is watching the events benevolently. The pyramidal composition is dynamic, yet harmoniously balanced. The colossal sense of depth created by the mountainous landscape gives the painting a perceptible peacefulness and greatness.",
    "24987": "Transferring to the Virgin, the iconography which from the 14th century in Italy was traditionally used to represent Mary Magdalene, Ross portrays the mother of Christ with her arms splayed and held up, as if she herself was reliving the moment of crucifixion; the expression of the crucified Jesus seems in fact to be impressed upon the face of Mary, who is now prostrate with grief. Behind her, the horrible animal-like figure directing his squint-eyed gaze away from the scene probably takes up the theme of the bodyguard, the symbol of the treachery and wickedness that determined the killing of Christ.",
    "28317": "This detail shows the face of an onlooker of the scene.",
    "24582": "This small, finely executed painting is a good example of Hubert Robert's refined art. Robert, a French painter of the second half of the 18th century, is known mainly for his landscapes decorated with imaginary architecture and little figures, in which happiness, reality and fiction, archaeological taste and sense of decoration are all mingled. Avenue in a Park is a late work in the painter's career, testifying to the permanence of his style and to his taste for a nature that has been disciplined and made decorative by man. The subject matter still reflects the \"douceur de vivre\" so dear to the 18th century. An avenue lined with trees with their tops intertwined leads the spectator towards the bottom of the garden. In the centre, a young girl is playing on a swing, activated by two companions. A group of people to the right are looking on. The whole painting bathes in a soft harmony of browns, greys and greens against a bluish sky background. The red coat of the man leaning against the pedestal catches the viewer's eye. The antique statues - reposing satyr and faun playing a flute - flanking the tree-lined opening in the foreground had been earlier captured by Robert in a red chalk drawing of various Graeco-Roman sculptures conserved in the Capitol (Valence, Musée des Beaux Arts). The artist has repeated them here the other way round. The young musician in turn had appeared in several of Robert's paintings. Arriving in Rome in 1754, Robert stayed there for over 10 years. It is there that he met the Abbé de Saint-Non, Giovanni Battista Piranesi and in particular Gian Paolo Panini, who was to have a lasting influence on him. He also became friends with Fragonard. The little painting in Brussels confirms the close links between the art of \"Robert of the Ruins\" and Fragonard's poetic universe. The avenue of trees also refers to the many parks and gardens in Italy and the Ile-de-France which were to nourish his imagination throughout his long and successful career. Robert exhibited at every salon from 1767 to 1798, becoming \"designer of the King's gardens\" in 1777 and much later, after the revolutionary tumult, producing plans for converting the Grande Galerie of the Louvre into a museum.",
    "24347": "The Trinity shows Ribera's confidence in his pictorial possibilities. The tragedy of the scene is emphasized by the use of light and a sumptuous palette. The bluish cadaver of Christ, marked by blood that runs down his side, staining his loincloth and shroud, contrasts with the hieratic appearance of God the Father, who shows us his dead Son, accompanied by the dove of the Holy Ghost. This work's message, Christ's death and suffering for Humanity, is extraordinarily clear. There is another, slightly different, version of this work at the Monastery of El Escorial.",
    "29344": "Every day of the Church year is dedicated to the memory of one or more saints or to a feast which commemorates an important event in the life of Christ or His mother. While it is fairly common to find depictions of all the saints and feasts commemorated in a particular month, it is rare to see the whole Church year painted on one or two panels. The picture shows an old Russian example of a complete calendar in the form of a diptych. The Orthodox liturgical year comprises two cycles of festivals: one of movable feasts based on the lunar calendar, and another, whose dates are fixed, based on the solar year. The saints and feasts of the latter are depicted in ten rows on each panel, in precise chronological order. A red dot (representing the moon) marks the start of each new month.",
    "9246": "The scene at top of the niche containing the figure of Adam depicts in grisaille the Offering of Abel and Cain. The scene prefigures both the sacrifice of Christ and the Eucharist.",
    "21246": "The art of László Paál gave many original features to Barbizon School. Of the great masters in Paál's time only Millet actually lived in Barbizon, and he followed the activity of the Hungarian artist and the other young painters who worked there with great interest, and was highly appreciative of his passionate paintings. Paál's work was first associated with that of Théodore. Rousseau and later he was compared with Diaz de la Péna. Yet there is something that makes him quite different from them - his imposing power of rendering, and his highly nostalgic, nature-inspired delineation. In his best works, the romantic approach is combined with a realistic representation and expression of atmospheric effects. The painting \"In the Forest of Fontainebleau\" is bathed in sunlight, the forms are strict and there is still a vibrant translucent effect. His palette has an abundance of greens - glistening olives, the pale green of sunlit leaves, the sea-green of moss, the dark green of the deep mysterious forest - these and many more variations of green foliage shimmer in the dancing shafts of sunlight. Not one of his works was acquired by a museum during his lifetime, and his only official recognition, the \"mention honorable\" of the Paris Salon came when he was already seriously ill. In 1880 two of his pictures were bought for the collection of the National Museum. Thanks to Elek Petrovics, the Museum of Fine Arts, despite financial difficulties, bought a number of his works during and after the First World War, among them his painting.",
    "6307": "Daniel Haigh of Tooting was Master of the Old Surrey Hunt from 1820 to 1836. He is portrayed on his dark bay hunter \"Kitten\" in a rolling landscape.",
    "3150": "The picture, commissioned in 1489, was painted for the church of the Florentine convent of Cestello (today Santa Maria Maddalena de'Pazzi) in Borgo Pinti. Botticelli enables the observer to look through a room structured according to the laws of perspective and across the red floor tiles, along its converging lines, out onto a landscape. The lively movement of the figures contrasts with these spatial dynamics, which lead towards the background. There is a diagonal line running from the edge of Gabriel's robes to his raised hand, and it continues in the arm which Mary is holding across her chest. The angel's robes, which are billowing in great folds, show that he has just made a sweeping landing. Gabriel is kneeling reverently in front of Mary and his mouth, which is slightly open, suggests that he is in the process of speaking the words of St. Luke's Gospel, which are written underneath him in Latin on the painting's original frame: \"The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee.\"",
    "18449": "The picture shows the central panel of a triptych.",
    "30389": "In this work a royal yacht bearing the arms of the House of Orange anchors in a port. It is surrounded by various large sailing vessels, upon which Dutch prosperity was founded, whilst on the shore various figures are bathing in the morning sun. The painting was part of a collection of ninety-five old master paintings sold to Catherine the Great (1729-1796) by the famous Swiss collector François Tronchin (1704-1798). Tronchin was a financier and civic leader who was a friend of the philosophers Denis Diderot and Voltaire. After selling much of his collection to the Empress in 1770, he continued to advise Catherine on her future purchases."
}